you know , one of the great sensiences of travel , and one of the joys of ethnography research is to live with the people who can still remember the old days , who still feel their past in the wind , are touching them on the rain , tasting them in the bitter leaves of the plants .
together , the myriad cultures of the world form a web of spiritual and cultural life that surrounds the earth and is as important to the good of the earth as the biological life web that you know as a biosphere .
now , the problem -- the problem is that even those of us who have sympathy for the difficult position of the native , look at them as orginial and colorful , but somehow they &apos;re limited to the past , as the real world , that is our world , is moving forward .
and this is in the very beginning .
as i said , it &apos;s only started by two-thousandth .
and hackerspaces , the computer hackerspaces , because the c-base in berlin was the first , nine-hundred fifty .
and this has become a gigantic network of very good , yes , infrastructural centers that are represented all over the world .
and we &apos;re hoping , of course , that we &apos;re going to stop ourselves in a similar way , and then we &apos;re connected in a similar way , so that there are more people involved in it .
and i would invite everyone to deal with it , and also try something out .
now it &apos;s not that simple , but it &apos;s not impossible , if you have enough curiosity , and you put enough energy in there , you get there .
thank you for listening .
that &apos;s it .
yeah , hello .
so , the fact is , you will remember the 20th century , in 300 years , not for your wars or technological innovations , but rather , an era in which we were against , and the massive destruction of biological and cultural diversity on earth either actively supported or passively accepted , so the problem is not the change .
how do we actually work ?
this is a question that really moves me as a designer , but also in the field of research and usability and in front of all things in the user experience .
it &apos;s about how to encounter people in interactive media , so that they can use these interactive media , and so they can create a most satisfying experience .
because i think the interactive media in us is addressing archaic , cognitive models , so paradigms that have been programmed in our biological memory a very , very long time ago , and that we can recreate them with interactive media .
and it &apos;s very amazing , because you actually believe that this high-tech that you &apos;re going to see there is actually going to bring you into the future , but in fact , the future is right with us , in our archaic roots .
now , what are archaic models ?
i used to write down four words , and i &apos;d like to explain them briefly .
in archaic cognitive models , these are the models that we have adapted to in the pre-industrial times .
to these archaic models , we have a fundamentally natural relationship to virtuality .
this sounds , in principle , unusual .
all cultures have been involved over and over again in the dance with new possibilities of life .
but i &apos;m going to go back to that in a minute , and i &apos;m going to prove to you by attempt that you also have a natural relationship to virtuality .
the second thing is that since that archaic model , we &apos;ve been able to talk very , very visually , even though we use a coded language today .
and the third area , which actually explains itself .
we all know that the interactive media is by definition nonlinear , which involves the sensitivity of linearity , and what tells us , of course , that we feel the linearity today as normal .
the fourth thing is that history is a place for us of information .
now , what about virtuality , which is actually the most natural thing in the world .
i want to prove that to you .
how many doors does the house you live in ?
we &apos;re not going to be able to answer that to me spontaneously , but this is what &apos;s going to happen , and it &apos;s happening right now .
they go through this house in the mind , so they live in , and they look at how many doors there are .
and the problem is not technology itself .
and that &apos;s exactly what they do .
they virtualize reality without computers .
fantastic , right ?
and we &apos;re tired of presenting virtual reality in our v.r.r. lab , and we can actually do it all the time .
and that ability to virtualize the reality , that they needed to have people in the pre-industrial times , because they had nothing at all .
they didn &apos;t have books .
or they didn &apos;t have photoolitography .
they didn &apos;t have mass media .
the only thing they had was their head .
and in this head , the memory was played .
the sioux indians did not stop being less on sioux than they were bowing and arrow tasks , when the americans stopped being americans , when they were assigning horses and horses .
in this head , knowledge was called , and with these virtual images , the imagination , knowledge was also passed on .
and so it &apos;s also so strong inside of us that we can deal with virtuality so well .
the interesting thing is , if i can make a little trip .
yes , that &apos;s going on .
what &apos;s interesting about this is that at that time , the human being was also media producers and medium itself .
now , if you think a little bit further .
what are media today ?
then you &apos;ll notice that there &apos;s been a change .
but i &apos;ll talk about that in a minute .
central tools of information investigation have been around for any stories .
not change and technology threaten the integrity of the ethnosphere . it &apos;s power . the ugly face of the rule .
shamanas , priests , what we call knowledge guards , were extra disconnected to preserving knowledge in stories .
and even today , we &apos;re still very , very strong about stories .
the author of the book the storytelling animal , jonathan gotchall , we still combine a thousand hours a year with the recipe of stories .
that means for a child who has spent most of his life on the recipe of stories until the achievement of the grandchild .
now we think our love of stories depends on us as a child sitting on our parents &apos; lap .
no , no , far lacking .
this goes way back to the cultures of pre-industrial times .
but for me , in the field of interactive media , as a particularly impressive thing , is that we have anchored in our biological memory , the ability to think nonlinear .
i brought you an example of the north american tribe of the nootka indian .
and the lives lived in the coastal region of british columbia .
and as you can see , this is a very island area , and you had to kind of navigate from island to island to get food .
and they did this with what &apos;s called lead-maps .
you may know that , if you &apos;re a little bit interested in it , of the australian people .
they have similar principles .
they don &apos;t have lead-landing , they used the so-called songlines , or traumps .
and what &apos;s interesting about this is that the navigation and the topography of regions could be depicted over songs .
where the language was subordered by the subordinated rang .
that means navigating about sound and about rhythm .
and these sounds and this rhythm have represented the geology , the topography of a region , and that , of course , has enabled you to defragment these songs , and you could sit down differently and move to the left , right , and also to the output .
why don &apos;t we sing to get from the top of a to b ?
or if we go to the mountains of tibet , where i recently study a lot , you &apos;ll see the ugly face of political dominance .
anyway , not to navigate .
what actually happened ?
this is what &apos;s happening is that geneva machine age .
we &apos;ve moved to the so-called avian age before .
what happened is the machine age , and what happened is the book , and what happens is it &apos;s the photoolitography .
and that &apos;s what happened , is that we have shifted the responsibility for our memories and that have shifted our own production of our individual memories to external media .
on the book and on the picture .
so , unfortunately , we have a little bit to virtualize god .
virtuality has suddenly become alien to us , and has nothing to do with reality .
bruce brown , a well-known designer at brighton university , has gone so far as to say that this mass media , he says the book and the picture , not the television , the internet and so on and so on , what we call mass media today , that these mass media have fossilized our memories , and have virtualized our ability to virtualize .
you know , the genocide , the physical extinction of people is generally convicted , but the ethnocid , the destruction of people &apos;s lifestyle , is not only convicted , but generally and many of them celebrated as part of a development strategy .
let &apos;s make a little intersection .
from the avian age to the machine age .
what &apos;s influencing our thinking and our memory ?
then these are fading influences of pre-industrial cultures .
and they &apos;re more and more overwritten over the centuries by the influences of the machine age .
that is , instead of remembering ourselves individually , we have standardized , widespread patterns of memories that we can depend on in our personal memories .
we are no longer producing ourselves .
we have an abstract language .
we &apos;re not imagining it in images anymore , but we &apos;re coding it with you our language .
we &apos;ve been used to things linearly .
and you can &apos;t understand the suffering of tibets if you haven &apos;t experienced it at the bottom .
and we &apos;ve accepted the linearity as a law , and there are only exceptions , like the non-linearity .
what we &apos;ve remained is the story telling .
still , we are very , very arrested to the story telling as an information facility .
the question is , what &apos;s next ?
we had the vocational age , we had the machine age , and we now described what we call the cyber-age .
it sounds very spacey , and it sounds very much like science fiction , i know .
but these concepts of cyber-age , they bring us back these possibilities to rediscover our capabilities .
it &apos;s about virtuality , it &apos;s about non-linearity , it &apos;s about history .
i want to just explain that a little bit .
there are technical concepts like augmented reality , which is the augmented reality .
you can think of this cultural web of life as an ethnosphere , and ethnosphere can be defined as the sum of all thoughts and dreams , myths of ideas , inspiration and intuitions that have been created by the human imagination since the beginnings of consciousness .
i went to lhasa with a young colleague , 6,000 miles from chengdu in west china , across southeast tibet to lhasa , and only when i went to lhasa , i saw the face behind the statistics that you hear . 6,000 sacred monuments that were turned into rubble and ash , 1.2 million people who were murdered by the cades during the cultural revolution .
so if you look at google glasses , for example , it &apos;s such a concept of what makes us recombine the virtual world with the real world , which is our monkey to virtualization , which is to feel virtual as something that is normal , natural , regarded .
another example is what &apos;s called virtual reality .
as crazy as this may sound in the context of my talk , we &apos;re physically moving in non-existential , virtual worlds , right after the holodeck model .
and others are the ambients , intelligent systems .
these are spaces that can respond intelligent to a human .
all of this takes the ability to accept our basic ability to accept virtuality as a real habitat .
i graduated , and i hope that the video works , a very , very beautiful project , which is the bachelor work of michael burk , ann-kathrin , joris klause and jan-moritz garbage .
and the last two are also here today .
maybe you can get up for a moment so that you can pause with the two of them on the project .
and this project , as an example , i brought back to this archaic , cognitive model .
this young man &apos;s father was identified as a tag of the tank lama .
the whole thing is a game , i have to say .
which , of course , is extremely opposed to the story , and it &apos;s a computer game .
and when i say computer games , they &apos;re very likely to have some people in front of any console , or that they &apos;re playing with the console in their hand with any console .
anyway , they do it in there .
this is a game for the outside .
and that &apos;s targeted to think that i &apos;m exploring the outside world , so that i &apos;m rediscovering the real world .
and this game connects the virtual world , which is the data that we produce with the real world .
i apologize that i have to cut so much .
you can explain that in a moment , and there &apos;s a lot more behind it .
and that is , i &apos;m discovering a city by looking at which places have been positively or negatively twittered .
that meant that during the chinese invasion , he was killed instantly .
and so i get a very different view of the city , a very different impression , which is that i see negative and positive zones of a city , and i get a very different , virtual map of a very real city .
and we can now look at that .
ah , what you can see here , sorry , is another little explanation of what you &apos;re about to see .
of course , this virtual world lives in the walls of our cities , is clear .
and with a kind of flashlight , we can make these virtual worlds visible .
so , i &apos;d like to summarize my talk , and that is that in the sense that the characteristics and the skills that we &apos;ve acquired from the vocational age , and that have gone a little bit of devastating in the machine age , that the cyber age can be activated with what we call the cyber , and that in this way , we have this kind of complex , technological , new products , not in the future , but actually come back to us to our roots .
thank you .
yes , i &apos;m very happy to be with you .
i &apos;ve just been asked if this bag is a talking bag , and it &apos;s going to talk to me instead .
he &apos;s not going to do that .
his uncle flew into the diaspora with her holiness , bringing people to nepal .
i &apos;m also going to resolve what &apos;s in there .
but so far , i &apos;m going to make it a little bit curious .
yes , kids are naturally curious or should be curious , designers too .
i &apos;m a designer of house , so , of course , i &apos;m also involved in the subject of curiosity , and how does the curiosity change our thinking again , and why do we maybe lose curiosity and have to reboot it , and so on .
this is a whole series of things that you &apos;re dealing with next to the actual existence .
when professors get curious , they &apos;re often put in these n semesters of research .
and that &apos;s also what i &apos;ve had in the last half-year .
a research semester on natural user interface design .
now , you &apos;re going to ask yourself , why are all the designers starting to deal with such natural , archaic forms of communication , interaction and so on ?
and i just keep one of these little devices up , because things are supposed to be more intuitive , more and more natural , user-friendly , and you have to look at it , which is actually natural for us humans , what is user-friendly or intuitive .
his mother was locked in as a punishment for -- to be wealthy for crime .
and before the background , i &apos;ve been in the field of natural user interface design , so the next generation of the human computer in which the human relationship is how our tools or how the computer is changing from the supercomputer to the digital assistant .
so i &apos;ve been looking at this , when is it natural or intuitive ?
maybe have to look back at it again .
why is this happening at all ?
so if we look at the development of our society , in short , here we are now moving from the third to the fourth generation of society , or social form .
so from modern to computer society .
every society is coined by a primary medium .
at the beginning of the tribal society through language .
that means that you &apos;ve found yourself by talking a common language , you &apos;ve been able to communicate with each other , you &apos;ve moved to the same cave , or in other areas , you &apos;ve created cities , or villages , and you &apos;ve created , kind of , tribal society .
but the primary medium was the language , something very natural , something very living .
he was smuggled into prison at the age of two to hide under her rock summit , because she couldn &apos;t live without him .
you also had to learn , so no small child can talk about nature , but we learn it suczessive and proportionately .
that was then triggered by the ancient society and the first form of abstraction .
this was a huge outcry at the time , because , of course , you start manifest the living language in the form of writing , which means what &apos;s fluid and alive , i start and i start carving it in stone , and i manipulate it as well .
and depending on how i kiss and when i kiss , of course , it &apos;s a very different narrative than if there &apos;s a living kind of thing .
but then sukzessive was pulling this script as a primary medium , getting in .
and then the next generation that we actually live in today was primarily .
this is the printing and print coined script with gutenberg and others .
at the time , it was just like a monkey where adel , klerus and others have said , are you insane , when the people start reading , they want to talk , and that &apos;s , of course , totally fatal .
and now we come to the next generation , and the exciting thing is that a generational shift is just a few hundred years , and we &apos;re really in this phenomenal phase right now that we &apos;re doing this .
this is completely confusing us , of course , because on the one hand we see the new media , social media , facebook and so on .
the nurse who did this brave act was brought to an educational camp .
with total transparency , which is the new thinking , which is what bangs the old thinking , don &apos;t say that in the lasaga horse meat and no more cattle &apos; meat , or other phenomena , which is , i just want to swallow this up and i want to do it .
and these two worlds are just banging on each other , new and old thinking .
the exciting thing about this is , if you look at this , this new society , this computer society , is a lot of mechanisms , principles and archaic paradigms from the tribal society .
now , not at a local level , but at a global level .
we &apos;ve understood that the weather is global .
that the issue of ecology is a global issue .
not if i think locally about ecological here , and the neighbor thinks less ecologically , it doesn &apos;t work anymore .
that means that local village has actually become a global village with the same principles , possible , of course , intuitively , but also the total transparency .
as you knew at the time in the village , who has who and when , this is what &apos;s happening today about this expansion of ourselves through these mobile devices at a global level .
be it that we aggregate knowledge globally and faster and better and better .
one day , she stepped out of the box on a armband of maos , and for that surplus , she had to go to a hard labor camp for seven years .
as it used to happen in the village .
in front of the background , i &apos;ve just been looking at it , what does it mean , what &apos;s natural for us , what is it that we may have lost , but what is instinctive for us , so what makes the difference ?
because often people come , they can &apos;t make it user-friendly so that everybody can deal with it .
so you have to deal with it , what does that mean , and not just change it , that it &apos;s different , but it &apos;s supposed to be better .
and of course , when is a little intuitive , and how can i take an impact on it as a creator , and make things so that they &apos;re a user-friendly , so they &apos;re intuitive , because then they &apos;re fun and they &apos;re easy to use .
you then , even during the study , you &apos;re dealing with the subject of perception and perceptual psychology .
and of course , that &apos;s also what you start and you look at , and you say , okay , now i &apos;m just looking inside the inner self .
and what does it really look like in there ?
so how do we work when we look in there ?
and what does it really mean , of course , intuitively and how do our channels work in perception , and how does cognitive processing work ?
the suffering of tibets can be intolerable , but the triggering spirit of people is something unforgettable .
because steve jobs once said you need to be dig deeper to understand it works .
so you really have to look at this in detail , if i want to make something user-friendly or intuitive , what does that mean in the core ?
and you can see that , in fact , you have a &apos;s seven senses , most people think we have only five , now it &apos;s even seven recognized , there &apos;s certainly the next , awesome sense of the future , and as an extension of ourselves .
and looking at how do we process information , how do we take information ?
to say alone , what is information ?
information is every difference that makes a difference .
many people use the word , but they don &apos;t even know what it means to detail .
but i have to understand at the core , in nature , when does information become information , when does data become information , and from information , again , so that i know how to make things intuitive or , of course , portable .
and of course , also , how does design affect perception .
we see this , when i make things , i can make them confusing like on the right , where i don &apos;t know what &apos;s salty and pepper , or i can sort of intuitively design them by showing things .
and in the end , we &apos;re really in front of a choice : do we want to live in a monochromatic world of the monotonies , or in a polychromatic world of diversity ?
so much more natural , in a pot , but i see , in a way , where is salt and pepper in there .
and when i tell someone , give me salt or pepper , the first time he &apos;s on the right , he &apos;s going to think about where &apos;s in there .
and on the left-hand side , intuitively , and then hopefully i hope that there &apos;s no sugar in there , giving the salt accordingly .
but also our perception of ourselves , how does it deceive us ?
for example , this perception in context .
the right circle looks bigger than the small one , even though that &apos;s not the case , but they &apos;re just the same size , and yet our perception is changing depending on what context we put things in .
does anybody know what that is ?
come on .
pattern recognition should still work .
that &apos;s where it &apos;s going to be more like my glasses .
the ethnosphere is the great legacy of humanity .
margaret mead , who said great anthropologist , before she died , is that as we move towards a thread , unprecedented , generic worldview , we would see not just the entire range of human imagination reduced in a mind-blowing way , but that one day we wake up from a dream , and we forgot that there were any other possibilities .
so it &apos;s n circle .
a second circle already starts to correlate or associate certain similarity .
and when i stop sitting in a halboval , we suddenly don &apos;t see one more unit , which is circle , circle , and yet , we see one unit , we don &apos;t see three parts , one circle , one circle , another .
this is called the design law , or the design psychology , which also affects us in perception .
it &apos;s important for the designers , they have it most of the time in the first semester , the great design laws .
the design law of the nearby , the design law of the continuity and so on .
often in the third , forget about it .
but this is an essential component , if you want to make things intuitively possible .
the next phenomenon , which is also very interesting , is vision .
sounds very banal , but it &apos;s very exciting when you get closer to it .
and it &apos;s humbling to think that maybe our species has existed for 600,000 years .
so we have the eyes in front , and now you think we &apos;re seeing from the front to the back .
that &apos;s wrong .
you first see from the back to the front .
that is , they provoke a assumption forward that they see something that they recognize , unprecedented circle .
that is , we &apos;re going to propagate our vision first before we see it , put it back in the back of our seal apparatus to say , okay .
i &apos;ve got cognitive feedback , you &apos;ve projieved what you want to see .
that &apos;s also there , and then that comes back .
and then it goes forward again , because the back doesn &apos;t look at it , and says , &quot; well , now , look again and see if that &apos;s what you see , that &apos;s what you want to see . &quot;
and then it goes back , and then it &apos;s actually seen .
so a very , very exciting process of how certain things are going on , and in what kind of millisecond areas these things are happening .
the neolithic revolution that brought us agriculture , and at that moment , we were at the cult of the seed , replaced the poetry of the shaman by the prose of the priesthood , and hierarchy , specialization and overshooting -- was only 10,000 years ago .
i don &apos;t know who knows this picture .
it &apos;s exactly the same thing that i just described .
now , everybody from this pattern is trying to see something .
i don &apos;t know who knows what .
does anybody see something ?
a dalmatiner , right .
once i saw that , that &apos;s a dalmatiner in there , you know .
you &apos;ll never forget it anymore , because i &apos;ll show you where the dalmatiner is .
now you see the dalmatiner .
and on and on , now you see him .
the modern industrial world , as we know it , is barely 300 years old .
that is , i &apos;ve actually spoiled them now that they don &apos;t recognize any pattern in there , but i &apos;ve designed them to see this dog in a very short period of time , over and over again , in this mutilated image .
and this is this projection of vision , feedback , vision .
now , i know , and now i propagate , that i see the dalmatiner .
i see the dalmatiner .
so , very , very exciting processes , which are then in this , yes , gray is not really , but it &apos;s here in this rosane mass that &apos;s going to happen .
does anybody know what three seconds is ?
long , yes .
that &apos;s our present .
so , it &apos;s always interesting to know as a designer .
if i know something takes three seconds to kind of take me out of the present to the past loop , i can also bridge very well waiting times , where i &apos;m going to do it by doing it with somebody with three seconds .
now , this surface story doesn &apos;t tell me that we have all the answers to the challenges that we face in the coming millennia .
that &apos;s what he has to process as a present .
then it goes into the past , and so i can bridge very elegantly , for example , on the computer , if i know this phenomenon .
what does five milliseconds take ?
yes , milliseconds .
it &apos;s also a very exciting phenomenon .
this is the time you fall in love with .
that means , of course , if you know that now , look at who you &apos;re looking at for for a long time , because i don &apos;t take over for the election , which can happen accordingly .
and six milliseconds , a very exciting phenomenon .
that &apos;s the time of most perceptions that we have .
that is , this first impression is happening at a rapid speed of how we perceive things .
when we ask these myriad world cultures about the importance of being human , they answer with 10,000 different voices .
and as we see things , as we look at what we &apos;re looking at , and how we sort of secure ourselves against our environment , so that we can think about that in a way .
of course , the designers are not just concerned with the subject of perceptions and neural processing or cognitive processing , but primarily , of course , with the subject of human object relations .
so how does a person deal with certain things accordingly ?
there &apos;s a product linguistically the practical functions , so formal aspects or formalaesthetic aspects .
there are signature functions , where i know exactly where i have to reach .
but there are also symbolic functions , why is there a little bit of a pie where hardly anything fits in anyway , so horrendous amounts of money , even though it &apos;s not that practical ?
there we are more like the symbolic , at the meaningful level , which we are , of course , looking at as designers .
back to my actual theme of natural user interface and the subject , which is , of course , usability .
usability always means , how can i achieve a certain goal , or how can a user , in a particular context , be able to achieve effective , efficient and satisfying a goal ?
that &apos;s how it says the norm .
and in this song , we &apos;ll be able to rediscover the possibility of being what we are : people with full consciousness who are aware of the importance that all people and gardens have to be able to flourish a space , and there are great moments of optimism .
how can i make something possible to use friendly ?
can i use that directly , or i need , n manual , or i need a corresponding education for it .
and less usable or usable is it .
that i &apos;m just doing it differently and more beautiful doesn &apos;t mean that it &apos;s better to handle .
you also have to understand that .
and if you look at the software that we &apos;ve just seen , in part , at it , you &apos;ll also understand why ninety-nine percent of our software today is not intuitive or not usable , including the i-pad in many areas or i-phone , even though it &apos;s much more intuitive than classical software .
in the process , intuitive usability is not only since apple is a fundamental economic factor , an elementary success factor , if i want to use technology to make people usable .
why ?
because usually , through this new kind of usability , the natural user ínterfaces , for example , are five times faster on average at our goal .
you have to imagine that if you do something of the classic commodity , it takes five hours and with this new kind of natural software , you only take one hour .
here &apos;s a photograph i took at the north end of the baffin islands when i went to the narwhal hunt with inuits , and this man , olaya , told me a wonderful story of his grandfather .
it doesn &apos;t mean that you &apos;re probably going to be able to go home for four hours , but your employer , or somebody is going to come up with the way they &apos;re doing it for the four hours .
but i want to say that , of course , it &apos;s a corresponding increase in performance for us to achieve certain things .
when we go back to the software area , here &apos;s the first command line interfaces , which were very abstract , where it took months to deal with these systems .
and then the next one that has been working with nem neural model or mental model like the software eergonoma , which is , you have an idea of something , the metaphor , the metaphor of a desktop , to make the computer usable .
so not anymore zeros and ones or cryptic codes , but a metaphor .
that made it much more user-friendly , but , of course , it &apos;s much better .
the next generation of graphic user surfaces is working a lot more with behavior .
so , as a designer , i form behavior much more often than what it looks like .
this is also a paradigm shift .
that i suddenly look more and more important for success , just the usability becomes an application .
the canadian government has not always been very good at the inuit , and over the 50 years , in the course of the establishment of our rule , they have been forced to move in settlements .
and then , if i take a step further into this natural user interfaces , where i have to go by voice , by language , by touch , by gesture , and not by mouse and cursor , i &apos;m even faster and more immediate .
but that also leads me back to the point where , when do things actually become more intuitive ?
if you become more intuitive , and then i have to put my little friend back in here and look , what does that mean , from the perspective of cognition , when is it really intuitive ?
and this is always a little intuitive for us humans , when i have to think about it very little .
so , apparently , he doesn &apos;t want to think , but he &apos;s going to make it very simple .
the less i kind of think about it , the more intuitive it is .
and what does that mean to the designer ?
that means , if we look at the fact that we can transfer existing action models from one to another , like the metaphor , then i can use that as a form .
that means that i can transfer an intuitive human action model to a software , and make the software much more usable .
now , of course , the question is , what is the most intuitive act of human beings , and now i &apos;ve been telling you ?
the grandfather of this old man refused .
this is the so-called osit-model .
this uses each of us and osit is an acronym and stands for more oriented , selective , informed , transformed .
this is what each of you is doing all the time , but he &apos;s doing it unconsciously , and he &apos;s kind of intuitively , or in part , instinctively .
the model is already exploded in the womb , and it &apos;s intercultural , so it works in the world at young and old , and it &apos;s used by us all the time , without most of us knowing that this model is there .
osit osit itself is going to be about 50 to seven thousand times of each of us in activity , so in our sleep , it &apos;s been discovered that it &apos;s going to be less often paired than it is on the day .
i can now orient this mental action model , select , inform , translate to an interaction system .
and through this kind of transmission , much like the metaphor of the desktop , now not a metaphor of a physical object , but a metaphor of a action pattern , a action principle .
and this is on a higher grail of user friendship than the transmission of a classic metaphor , which is the desktop .
and if i transfer that now , for example , in which i &apos;m going to go out as a supervision , selective as a choice , inform in the trap , it &apos;s going to come up to me , i can look at it in detail , and yes , transaction , i can throw it somewhere , or send it to somebody , or shop , and so on .
then i can transmit that whole thing .
it &apos;s the symbol of all of what we are and what we are capable of as an astonishingly white species .
the family who was afraid of his life took off all the weapons and all the tools .
i &apos;m going to try this through an example .
i mean , everybody &apos;s eaten cake .
overview : now i &apos;m kind of interacting with the object , can zoom out , zoom in .
i &apos;ll get the whole overview , and i can now filter on this , and i can say , just show me all the things with chocolate .
and all of a sudden , you have an interface , which is much more intuitive and much more natural .
because that i can grab things like the bits , touch them , and they come up to me is much more natural than if you can get over hierarchically organized websites or other mechanisms to sort of make these things accessible .
imagination is more important than knowledge , and with that phrase , i &apos;d like to leave you with , a and again , the clue , also designers have to think differently to come up with new solutions , and in that sense , i thank you very much for your attention and please .
i want to help you do a very specific aspect of curiosity .
the first one , when you get big as a child , as a baby , is that you take care of what the divorces you have , right ? and depending on whether your parents allowed you to play more or less in the pottery and touch , the more , so to speak , your curiosity is , of course , tissue .
and the curiosity doesn &apos;t learn .
now you have to know that the inuit is not afraid of the cold . they used it to be their advantage .
that &apos;s why all of you who are here and are curious , in fact , people who have a property that you can &apos;t learn .
i &apos;m going to talk about basically putting this whole environmental discussion , global demise , 40 years of club-of-rome in quality .
and there &apos;s a central point here .
and it depends on phosphorus .
give pee a chance .
every day , they give you + give you about two grams of phosphorus , and every day you have to take two grams of phosphorus .
otherwise they can &apos;t have teeth .
they can &apos;t store energy .
they can &apos;t have bones .
we could only glide as amorphe mollusks through the oceans of the world .
the glides of their sleeps were originally made of fish that was wrapped in caribbean skin .
in fact , if we don &apos;t take phosphorus and give it away .
well , amazingly , we &apos;re dealing with something that would actually be self-understanding , but is not that way .
because everybody is talking about energy , but nobody is talking about the phosphorus problem .
the phosphorus problem is much more critical .
we depend on two countries .
we only have two years of phosphorus , and we &apos;ve been now put a lot more uranium in the environment by the phosphorus mining of the world than we use in all the nuclear plants .
in the last 20 years alone , five thousand tons of uranium has been distributed on our fields in germany .
and that &apos;s what we &apos;re recording .
it makes leukemia in children .
and we think we would protect the environment if we &apos;re a little less harmful .
the man &apos;s grandfather was not afraid of the arctic night or the hurting storm .
so , for example , shake the environment , drive less cars .
shake the environment , make less waste .
shake the environment , use less energy .
but that &apos;s not a protection .
that &apos;s the way i would say , shake your child , just three times instead of five .
that &apos;s just a little less destruction .
if we think from the weighs to the bathroom , then our whole earth is going to be a cemetery .
that &apos;s why we &apos;re thinking about weighs to weighs .
and the most important thing is to look at the ground , first of all .
in the ground , over 60 percent of the carbon is stored .
he hatched out , and he put his pants down from sea sfur , and he defeated into his hand , and when the feces began to freeze , he formed them into the shape of a knife .
at the moment , we &apos;re building corn and losing between 11 and 30 kilograms of 30 tons per hectare , or recruiting the square meter .
that means we lose about five thousand times more in the ground than we &apos;re reformed .
we can , of course , look at the waste problem .
and everything is packaged or content .
in openbach , for example , on the trash of the house , 20 percent of the garbage is now wind .
and as we get older , the wind gets bigger .
these are all in the pre-wind phase , in a way .
yes ?
a baby needs about six thousand wind .
we could , of course , reduce that by 10 percent , but what does that do ?
he sprayed saliva on the sides of the fecalia knife , and when it was frozen , it amazes a dog with it .
that will be balanced in china in a second .
this is completely trivial .
so the question is , how do we deal with these winds ?
this is a proof , by the way , that men are not pigs .
i want to tell you .
because the phosphorus is given excrement to the pigs on the solid ingredients .
the people over the urine .
yeah .
so that &apos;s not how men can be pigs .
because that &apos;s evidence , isn &apos;t it ?
he contained the dog , and he improvised a dish , took the skeleton of the dog and improvised a sleeping , put another dog in , and then went over the ice customs with the fecalia knife on the belt .
traditionally , we think in the environmental debate , we &apos;re too many in the world .
and if you tell the people that if you talk to the people to exist , if you say that would be better , you wouldn &apos;t be there , they will be subtle and hostile .
and so someone like al gore , one of our great heroes , there &apos;s nothing more important than stabilizing the human population .
in israel , if you save a human life , you save the earth .
here it says , the more you kill , the better .
yeah .
the first question is , are we really too many ?
if you look at the ants , the weight of the ants on earth , the ants weigh about four times more than we humans .
i could also take termites , but in the united states , no one likes to termits in this far , even though they &apos;re vegetarians .
that means that ants weigh much more than we do .
this is how you can do something from nothing .
and because they &apos;re physically working much tougher than we are , and because they only live for three to six months , they &apos;re in their weight , in energy consumption , a little 30 billion people .
that means we &apos;re not too many , we &apos;re too stupid , right ?
and where you see how far away we are , what we really wanted to do and could , and how sad we are , that we are at all on earth , you can see that , for example , offenbach has a program , up to 20 , you want to be climaneutral here , right ?
you can only be climate-eutral if you don &apos;t exist , right ?
the only chance .
have you ever seen a climate-neutral tree ?
yes ?
one ?
that means that all of our intelligence means that we want to be grimmer as trees , right ?
yes ?
and this is a symbol , in many ways , of the resistance of the inuit and all the indigenous people in the world .
no tree is carbon neutral .
luckily not , yes ?
there &apos;s no overpopulation problem in trees .
there are still six billion trees in the amazon alone .
you &apos;ve heard about some of the problems of overpopulation in trees ?
that means all of our intelligence means that we want to be grimmer as trees .
and where you see , even in something like demeter , the most striking bioagriculture , yes , doesn &apos;t allow our own metabolism products to go back .
every year , we lose three million tons of phosphorus that really would have to go back to cycles .
and with that , we &apos;re too many .
just about it .
the canadian government gave back the inuit in april 1999 the complete control over an area bigger than california and texas combined .
that is , we feel so guilty about the earth that we say , there is no bio-farming , no bioland , no of course , no progression , and as all of you say , that allow our own excrement to go back .
isn &apos;t that sad ?
so we &apos;re too many .
it certainly makes sense to be less harmful in terms of oil use .
but where are we useful ?
we &apos;re trying to minimize our ecological footprint , but it &apos;s about having a big footprint that &apos;s useful .
we want to be good for society , we want to be good for the economy , but when it comes to the environment , the highest , not to be there , right ?
nullemissions , yes ?
you can only have nullemissions if you &apos;re not there .
even if you were to shoot yourself now , you would have emissions .
and just as the biosphere was deployed very much , it happened with the ethnosphere -- just at greater speed .
it &apos;s our new home country , and it &apos;s called nunavut .
so you can &apos;t solve that .
we can do it differently .
we can extract our nutrients back .
we do agriculture in brazil , where we regain the nutrients .
directly , we can get nutrients back in this way in agriculture .
we do this in china , for example , where we take the waste right away .
in china , a night cup is still called honey pots , so to speak , right ?
and in our western world , we &apos;ve always been too stupid to bring back our nutrients .
that means that the whole western civilization-story is about the fact that the city has always taken , but the farmers have never given back .
and in doing so , the cities had to grow more and more , because the farmers went to the cities , and the cities had to keep their nutrients going .
it &apos;s an independent area . you control all the minerals .
that &apos;s why all the western empires are always expanded , until they haven &apos;t done the infrastructure , and then they &apos;re imploded .
yes ?
in china , it was different .
you &apos;ve done a fragile civilization over five thousand years , because you &apos;ve always been able to bring the nutrients back .
even today , if you &apos;re invited to eat in china , you &apos;re expecting to eat that you &apos;re going to stay until you &apos;re looking for the toilet .
because it &apos;s unfriendly to go and take the nutrients .
they were invited to eat , not to nutrient theft .
that is , you can see on the internet how to get the nutrients back .
in fact , the beautiful thing is , if you do this , you do agriculture , you make biogas , you know , on a hectare country of five thousand people in favelas , you can make a farmer about a thousand-thousand-dollar farmer , and you can wait for that , chickens and pig and ducks and vegetables and fish .
and the great thing about this is that the crime rate in the favelas is going back over ninety-nine percent .
an amazing example , like a nation , a state , that can seek and achieve with its inhabitants .
so we don &apos;t have to control people to be very poor .
we can support them to be good .
this is , of course , high-tech agriculture , but the facilities carry themselves .
the byproduct is clean water .
and they &apos;re designed like this by the design that a farmer can just run them .
that means that the crime rates go back .
and none of these facilities , we &apos;ve now built over a hundred and fifty years , none of these facilities have ever been saboted .
you could just throw in a liter of algae , and then the facility would be ruined over the years .
don &apos;t happen .
that means we don &apos;t have to control people , to be very little bad .
and finally , i think it &apos;s pretty obvious , at least for those of us who have traveled to these distant goals of the earth to realize that they &apos;re not at all removed .
we can support them to be good .
that means we need to get phosphorus back .
and by the way , if you want to do what you want to do , you write down , you know , in germany , the best way to do it is in frfurt .
unfortunately , they &apos;re not in openbach , but maybe they can help the frankfurgers a little bit .
because the frankfurter plant could best get the phosphorus back .
and it has to go back .
we see that , in fact , phosphorus is really critical .
and we see it &apos;s going through .
we &apos;ve been in holland now for three years .
the dutch government has explained that they will be the first country in the world to regain phosphorus .
they are the countries of people who are home .
but we need it all together .
you know , there are two countries that control almost 70 percent of the world &apos;s phosphorus .
there &apos;s opec , there &apos;s a bunch of orphans .
these are six and a half countries that control 40 percent of the oil supplies .
and we &apos;re going to replace the oil with other energy carriers .
but the phosphorus is not going to be replaced .
that &apos;s not about making the existing a little less bad , but it &apos;s about doing something right .
and most of all , is to ask what the right thing is .
that is , it &apos;s about efficiency , not about efficiency .
in holland , of course , it &apos;s easier to understand , because in holland , the country is built on flowers .
they represent parts of the human imagination that go back in the past time , and for all of us , the dreams of these kids , like the dreams of our own children , become part of the geography of hope .
yes ?
imagine if your wife is sad , for example , if you &apos;ve annoyed her , and you come with 50 roses .
completely inefficient .
but it &apos;s very effective , right ?
or take a lip pen .
a woman in germany eats about six comma three kilograms during her life .
there .
that &apos;s not exactly right , scientifically , because we don &apos;t know how much of it is being kissed away .
but a lip pen , even in that lighting , i can tell you , is completely inefficient , but completely effective , right ?
one of the things that &apos;s beautiful in life is not efficient .
what we &apos;re trying to do at national geographic is we believe that politicians never do anything .
that &apos;s why not resource efficiency , but efficiency .
to ask , what &apos;s the right thing ?
not to burn the sewage a little bit better , and to deploy it and to lose it in the burn facility all the materials for cycles , but to ask , first , how do you close cycles ?
imagine mozart efficient .
yes ?
if i invite you to dinner and say , yes , there &apos;s a pill of open taste and a glass of water .
wonderful , &apos; ne ?
that &apos;s efficient .
everything that is beautiful in life is not efficient .
if you fall in love with somebody , efficient ?
we believe that polemics -- we believe that polemics are not persuasive , but we believe that storytelling can change the world , and so we &apos;re probably the best institution for storytelling in the world . our website gets 35 million hits every month .
yes ?
that is , all that matters in life is not to save , to avoid , to reduce .
the whole environmental discussion .
we tell people , oh yeah , you don &apos;t have an environmental awareness in the south .
no , throwing away is exactly the right thing , right ?
at every point where you throw away , from , yes , you create opportunities for life .
but the wrong things .
if you throw away the wrong things , you have a waste problem .
in how we think from north .
there &apos;s every footprint that &apos;s disadvantaged .
156 nations send our television channel .
when they walk , yes , every footprint destroys the floor .
because the soil is going to die off , and the wind is going to die , and the water is going to wash away the ground .
but if you &apos;re in italy , every footprint means that the water is in the meadow longer .
so , it &apos;s about creating a big footprint that becomes a wetlands .
not guilt management .
we say sustainability in germany .
yes ?
but if i ask you , how about your wife ?
so what do you say ?
sustainable .
our magazines are read by millions .
then i say , &quot; heartfelt pity , yes ? &quot;
that &apos;s the minimum .
so not saving , deciding , avoiding .
every waste is nutrients .
and it &apos;s a lust , when you see in italy , people in the high bow are throwing out , like , ne coladose , out of the car .
because , you know , this is a fun process .
it &apos;s a form of requadruple behavior , right ?
you can show , i was there .
but with the right design , there we go .
for example , we &apos;ve developed an ice cream package , which is liquid at room temperature .
no biologist , for example , would claim that 50 percent or more of all species are just about to die out , because it &apos;s just not true . and yet , this -- the most apocalyptic scenario in the field of biodiversity -- is almost almost unknown as the most optimistic scenario in the field of cultural diversity .
and we do a series of travel to the ethnosphere where we take our audience to places of such cultural wonders that they can be blinded by the seen , and hopefully , they will take one after the other , the central epiphany of anthropology : that this world deserved to exist in a variety of ways that we can find a way of living in a really multicultural pluralistic world in which the wisdom of all people can contribute to our common well-being .
they can throw them away where they go and stand .
in two hours , it builds up everywhere .
and it contains seeds of rare plants so that they can contribute by throwing away to biodiversity .
that means we &apos;re useful , not less harmful .
so there are two cycles .
it &apos;s not all to be composable , of course .
a tv set or a washing machine , which is just using it , they don &apos;t use it .
just the things that are swallowing , like shoe soles , like brakes , like airports , they have to be so that they go to biological systems .
the things that are only used go into technical systems .
but today we &apos;re just talking about the biological systems .
thank you .
yes ?
for example , the sneaker , yes ?
very direct advertising , not for the company puma per se , but for helping this company successfully make these products successful .
because we &apos;re not making things free of us .
yes ?
so , if i invite you to eat and say , this is free of chicken , it doesn &apos;t help you .
no , we see what &apos;s in there .
positive .
so not like detox .
not toxic in it .
what i &apos;m going to show you , first of all , as quickly as possible , is the basic work , a new technology that we &apos;ve transmitted microsoft as part of an operation just a year ago , which is seadragon , and it &apos;s an environment where you can either be local or removed with huge amounts of visual data .
it &apos;s all in it is useful .
these are the first shoes that you can put the cavalry launch on the pedestrian pile , and the rubber can go in biological circles , right ?
all of it is composable of it .
and of course , if we can do it , we can do it for adidas , for nike , for hennes and mauritz and all the textile industry .
and that &apos;s half of the world &apos;s wastewater problems that are caused by the textile industry .
that &apos;s why you help with that , ask people .
hey , puma , are you really serious ?
because they &apos;ve already changed the board chairman twice .
and i &apos;m not so sure that they &apos;re really staying there .
so , help me a little bit .
we see lots and lots of gigabytes of digital photographs here that you can seamlessly and continuously get in , waving , rearranging in any way .
but it &apos;s done .
yeah .
that &apos;s what &apos;s just been shown .
here we go .
we can do things now so that if they &apos;re going to swallow , if they &apos;re going to break , they can go into biological cycles .
technical cycles are the same .
there &apos;s a direct renamesyal system for this .
this is the first ecological backpack , actually , that &apos;s made to go back to the circulation .
and so , in any store , you can get things back .
if you come up with that , yes ?
and it doesn &apos;t matter how much information we look at , how big these collections are , or how big the images are .
do you remember the wind ?
right now , the garbage is .
all over the place , these winds are around , almost .
in the countries where people come to money .
it &apos;s in front of the deponies , but it &apos;s also in the landscape , right ?
if we change the plastics , so that it can go into biological systems , if we change the water stores , inside that you can go back to cellulosic base , then you can plant a baby in israel , or in tunisia , hundreds of 50 trees .
yes ?
if you take these winds , you shrink them , sterilize them , and you take the powder to plant trees .
so the baby is carbon positive for the whole life , from the beginning .
so , we don &apos;t need to be climate-neutral , we can be climate positive .
most of you are digital photos of a camera , but this is , for example , a scan of the library of congress , and it &apos;s in an area of 300 megapixels .
it &apos;s kind of a behavioral poop print .
yeah , so to speak .
yes ?
we can do that .
we can reinvent everything again .
i started an institute .
there are a lot of people working there now , and they can all be engaged .
there &apos;s an extra clue , cradle to cradle , where everyone can participate .
so not saving , deciding , avoiding , reducing , not management of guilt , but intelligent waste .
does that make you curious ?
it doesn &apos;t matter , because the only thing that can limit the performance of a system like this is the number of pixels on your screen in every moment , and it also has a very flexible architecture .
thank you .
the work of the interpreter .
music as a language .
in the description of my talk , i understand , as an interpreter , me as a translator , in the english word .
interprets are translators of the written notes in clinical music .
that , as a translator , you have to transfer not just the word for word to the text into a different language , but also the deeper sense of words and word bias to make it a meaningful translation , everyone who has to do with foreign languages .
translating from german to english can require more knowledge , because when you &apos;re talking about poetry or even about poetry .
but it &apos;s very strange for layman , what we &apos;re doing with our music language .
as an interpreter of a piece of music , i first have just the written notes .
you think , surely , the composer wrote in the notes exactly everything that he imagined .
this is a whole book , an example of non-image data .
in fact , the notes are very vague and inaccurate .
these notes are about as accurate or inaccurate as a verbal , although very seemingly commute , accurate , description of a landscape .
because in this verbal description of landscape , the fragrance of the flowers is not to smell , the degree of the green , not to hear the saddles of the wind , not to feel .
that means that the interpret has to translate this unprecedented assessment of the emergency language into another , which is audible , concrete , nonverbal music language .
today i want to translate what i otherwise translate musically , so interpreting , into a verbal language .
so basically , a translation of translation .
so i prefer to do it in german , because if i had to translate it back into english , it would be equivalent to me to translation of translation .
so , the music works for me as much as the spoken language .
the notified notes have the function of the letters of a script .
so it &apos;s not enough to just learn to read notes and to press the keys that are on the piano or the right place on a violin string .
this is bleak house of dickens . every column is a chapter .
because these are just the letters that you &apos;ve learned to paint .
the point of letters is that you can only recognize the language .
so for the learning of music language , you need to have at least as long as the spoken language .
now , there are departments as well , whether you learn it for use , just passively understand it , or you can talk actively , to the musical mother linguists .
the work of the interpreter starts pretty much like a theater director .
after first you &apos;ve chosen to play a piece , because you &apos;re excited about it , first of all , you &apos;re exploring the backgrounds of the composition .
you collect information about the piece in the secondary literature .
you read in the letters , journals , notes , or whether there are words , thoughts of composers themselves .
you study the works that he composed before and after .
you &apos;re comparing comparisons .
to prove that it &apos;s really a text and not a picture , we can do something like this to really show that this is a real representation of texting and not a picture .
the reasons for writing it .
how and what did he feel ?
what were its circumstances , like society and politics ?
i &apos;m interested in all this .
you think in that time , for example , by looking at contemporary images or reading literature .
but over time , as an interpreter , you have a rich knowledge about the composer that you play more and more often , and it &apos;s getting easier to think in and feel in .
the composer becomes more and more the friend that you live with .
his cause to write the piece is going to become more and more of my personal cause to play it .
now that the notes are anything but an accurate record of the composer &apos;s cause , but only a scaffolding , i now turn to this scaffolding to restore it with meaning and meaning .
i then say , with my own words , what could be written between this framework ?
and the key indicator of that is the extinction of the languages .
maybe this is an artificial way of reading an e-book .
i &apos;m going to explain what these sounds might have to mean .
now for me and for the composer at the time , and what you might mean for him today .
every note , every phrase , is going to make sense of it , because i feel it myself , because it &apos;s coming out of my own right now , personally , living .
it has to be coherent for me here and now , or i can &apos;t convince my audience that this is my cause .
it &apos;s a very happy concert over and over again , if i can have the experience , the piece that i &apos;ve been in advance for as long as i &apos;ve been redesigning .
how to revisit a happy new day , even though with the same rituals of life , getting up , breakfast , going to work , i &apos;m going to do the same thing over and over again .
i &apos;ve become a day older , changing seasons , my pulse is slowing down at night than in the morning , in a concert hall , it takes longer for the sound to come back than at home .
i notice the breathing of the audience , consciously or unconsciously .
all of this is affecting me and all of this is also affecting my experience with the composition .
it &apos;s wonderful when i &apos;m standing on stage with a duo partner , and we have the same wavelength .
i wouldn &apos;t recommend it .
then the same thing happens in a good , friendly conversation .
you bring a new idea in , and then you answer it with a reaction .
it &apos;s exciting , because then things happen that we haven &apos;t tried , and what you can &apos;t sample .
it &apos;s great fun to make music in this way , and you as the audience have then experienced how music communicates alive .
so each concert is a different concert .
i will never play as much as i do at that moment .
i can &apos;t play the way i do in 20 years .
i &apos;m going to have more life experience than i am today , and therefore i &apos;m going to have a lot more color nuances on my palette of music than i am today .
sure , i &apos;m going to throw out some color pots , but i &apos;m going to get new ones .
have a nice example of this .
this is a more realistic case . this is a copy of the guardian .
it was on a piano class for music students in my beloved old teacher , professor jbarrigen ude , a well-known beethoven specialist , concert pianist and longtime professor of music college here in stuttgart .
unfortunately , i was a lot too young , so that he was emerized when i finally started studying .
but i was very lucky to meet him very early , at age three , and so i was on his classes at the age of three .
i was 17 when i went back to one of his courses , and i played the last one of the four ballads of chopin , a late work .
he asked me what the introduction of this ballade was for me .
this is such a contracted part .
and in my youth , i said , expectation .
and he was screaming , and he was like , like this ?
that has to be the difference in aging .
because for me , it means memory .
every big picture is the beginning of a section .
he was already in his 60s .
well , with seventh , you still have dreams , but you don &apos;t have any significant memories .
i &apos;m going to play the piece again every few years , and it &apos;s changed for me , even though not a single note has changed .
every time it &apos;s exciting , because i keep reading something new .
an example of this from a very different area . monet has painted the seerosis x times .
it &apos;s always the same garden , but in different daytime , in different light .
he transferred the seeroses in a different way , as he saw , as they did at that moment on him .
his personal impressions of the sea urchins .
the x-former interpretation of a piece is comparable to this .
in the meantime , i &apos;m older than chopin with two and a half years when he wrote the piece .
and that really gives you the pleasure , and the good experience of reading a real paperwork of a magazine or a newspaper , which is a kind of medium with multiple scales .
he &apos;s only lived in nine-and-a-half years .
and it &apos;s important for me to keep looking at the notes , even though i mean to be able to memorize them .
to keep twin , right with the composer .
because the notes are the only connection directly to him .
especially if he &apos;s died .
now , how do you start talking about the language of music ?
i said , you know , it takes about as long as the spoken language .
often , the music class is the first way to learn how to read .
you &apos;re basically learning to read before you &apos;re just talking a word .
you learn to find the notes on the instrument .
we also did something at the corner of this particular copy of the guardian .
if all the fingers in time , in time , and the way they move in the notes , they come out sounds that sound like music together .
when the miserable happens , the student gets the next bit .
interpretation is hardly spoken in the beginning class .
all right , there &apos;s presto in the front , which is a quick piece .
lento , slowly .
loud and loud , f and b , etc .
most of you know that .
but even if you implement these anguish , it &apos;s still just a little technical .
and it &apos;s still not interpretation .
i wonder .
we created a false ad ad with very high resolution , which is much higher than a normal ad , and we added additional content .
i wonder that you often forget something very fundamental .
that to make music on the instrument , to do your own musical and to feel before .
that &apos;s what singing is .
a child who has not learned to sing , because the parents have not pretended , will not do it by themselves .
this is like learning to speak .
it &apos;s necessary to have your own experiences and ideas of music , and then to make it sound about another possibility , about an instrument .
people who have never been singing have never felt immediately with their own body , as it is , to form a sound .
designing a phrase with his own breath .
because the musical instrument is the extension of our body .
our vocal chords to sing , our hands and feet to dance .
if you want to see the functions of this car , you can see it here .
so the hammer heads in the piano are the sequel of my fingers .
the melody comes from the healthy and the rhythm of the dance .
the continuous coverage of music today is not promoting it .
you don &apos;t need to make music yourself when you get bored .
no longer need to whistle or sing a song .
every one of your own music is made up when you &apos;re constantly complained with music from the outside .
sure , there are some of you who say , yes , but what do you do if i can &apos;t sing ?
the question i ask you can &apos;t sing , a , because you think you can &apos;t sing ?
or b , because they haven &apos;t learned to sing ?
in both of them , it &apos;s not too late to start to find out if they can &apos;t , or to learn how to use these little muscles that put the vocal corrections in place .
or other models , or even technical specifications .
because that &apos;s what you can train .
or c , because they &apos;ve been blamed to them that they &apos;re inevitable .
and i ask , how skillfully competent was this diagnosis ?
have you got a second or third opinion , as they say today , beautiful ?
or d , you don &apos;t like music , and therefore you want to have nix .
but what i would regret , because music is a beautiful , communicative thing .
but maybe you can also change them .
well , you see , in all cases , no one has to be a deceptive candidate .
but don &apos;t say that either , i don &apos;t understand classical music .
i can &apos;t say whether it &apos;s good or bad .
and this really grabs these ideas to create these limitations for the available place on the screen .
i say that , but i &apos;m sure you can tell whether you like it or not .
because i don &apos;t think somebody says , i don &apos;t know if it tastes to me , because i can &apos;t cook .
so , they &apos;re not going to go out and eat , just because they can &apos;t cook .
so you don &apos;t have to go into classical music , because you don &apos;t play an instrument .
listen consciously and say whether it tastes to you or not .
whether the music is too sharp to you or too sweet .
tell me what you feel .
over time , you get claims and you want a little bit more spices there , or even taste fine differences .
now , why am i asking my audience that it &apos;s also actively listening ?
because the music is a language , and a language is there to communicate .
when each of you was born in this room , 6,000 languages were spoken on earth .
we hope that it doesn &apos;t mean pop-ups and other nonsense anymore -- that should not be necessary .
a piece of art that you never look at has no power to work .
the food that was cooked by a chef or a chef must be eaten and not just looked at or swapped out recipes .
so please listen when a music is played .
it &apos;s not just a nice soundscape .
if in an environment where the adults make music active , or at least they hear music , a child grows up , it &apos;s very easy for a music teacher to ask , what color is your flower ?
can you play it in blue as well ?
and the child plays , after a memorial break , instead of a red flower now .
and this sounds very different than it did before .
so that was the very first beginning of a personal musical expression .
so the first step to an interpretation .
of course , the mapping is one of the really obvious applications for a technology like this .
and what happens when you play a piece today , which was originally written a hundred , two hundred or three hundred years ago ?
in the meantime , the instruments have evolved .
there was no piano at the moment in bachs as an instrument .
it was just not invented .
i think the stream would have been thrilled if he had the sound possibilities of today &apos;s modern piano .
i can now make the sound that the stream has had on the modern wing sound , which a baroque cembalo can &apos;t .
you also know from beethoven that he heard more than he had become deaf .
today , a modern orchestra is able to play everything that an orchestra has rejected from then on as unplayable .
so the composers rely on us interprets that reinvent the pieces again .
so that you can hear what you &apos;ve only imagined in the mind .
and i really don &apos;t want to spend a lot of time here , except to say that we &apos;re going to be contributing to this area as well .
and also what you would think of today in the mind .
or what i imagine today , because what you might have thought .
thank you .
do you know what &apos;s neid ?
have you ever been neither ?
and how did that feel ?
shredded .
i have a friend who drives a passerati .
when i come , with my little v , w piesel , and i &apos;m wrong , this feeling comes up .
i &apos;m shooting something through my head .
but these are all the streets in the united states .
i say , ulf , what do you need to have that big car ?
now , this loses half of his value in the first year .
and in fact , you work much less than i did .
why do i have to afford a little car like this ?
and then i immediately come up with this , which is unfair .
it &apos;s against justice .
and as i say the word justice , this unpleasant feeling is gone .
our organism has invented a great way of making such uncomfortable emotion as envy to disappear .
you can also try this with words like revenge or profitability or something like that .
i want to explain something to you with this mechanism today , or to bring something that you &apos;re unconsciously familiar with .
overlaid on top of nasa &apos;s fraught picture .
the mechanism is from the lie .
but don &apos;t think about the lie , as you may have heard , when people say , nobody has the intention of building a wall .
and then you toss rocks so that he loses your vision .
on a lie like this , you see that the liar itself doesn &apos;t believe what he says .
it &apos;s very easy to verify that it &apos;s very different in mind .
he just deceives you and not himself .
no , the lie that i &apos;m talking about has to do with the fact that they deceive themselves .
you need this lie to sustain a livelihood to sustain a self-deception .
they can make them less easy , yes , checking , and also falling .
they need time .
now let &apos;s get something else out .
this time , an anecdote that you may know .
the spanish painter pablo picasso once portrayed a woman .
this woman then complained that the portrait wouldn &apos;t look like her .
picasso answers , just wait .
they get more and more similar .
at this point , and if you laugh , you can see how important this lie is and how much time you need to learn something that artists can tell us very well .
because artists have a disruptive relationship with the lie .
the artist shares something to you , and most of all , this lady , who doesn &apos;t see her when she just looks in the mirror .
the artist shares something to you in such a portrait that you &apos;re only familiar with when you look at this piece of art over and over again .
then this unpleasant feeling disappears , because it couldn &apos;t look like you , and it &apos;s getting more and more similar to you .
this is actually live on the internet now . you can check it out .
here you have this mechanism that we can use the lie as a great invention to stabilize our circumstances of life .
and not only in art , in the folk , in the mythology , it comes back in stories .
you may know this idea of the lady who looked in the mirror every morning and asked him , who is the most beautiful thing in the entire country ?
one day , this mirror says , yes , there &apos;s a more beautiful one .
behind the seven mountains and so on .
and you also know how much hostility of this real origin , also the mirror can &apos;t lie , comes out of this real origin .
but we should just be familiar with the fact that you can &apos;t tell a woman that there &apos;s a more beautiful one somewhere else .
here &apos;s what we need to do with the politically correctness , to bring it back and forth .
we need this lie at this point that keeps us up , without which we can &apos;t live .
we have not only in art , in folk poetry , but also in science , such great lies .
this is a project called photosynth that really connects two different technologies .
and there &apos;s this story of the woman of the bischof of worchester .
she heard about this book by charles darwin , the origin of species and the origin of man .
that the human being should come from the monkey and , yes , there was at least a common ancestor between humans and monkeys .
and then she ran to her husband and said , &quot; that &apos;s not true what charles is writing . &quot;
man is supposed to come from the monkey or a common ancestor .
no , no , it can &apos;t .
and if it &apos;s true , then we have to prevent people from getting knowledge .
why do we have to prevent people from getting knowledge from being true ?
because we can &apos;t live without that livelihood .
because we have this self-deception , this feeling of being great , descent from the highest creatures , not from such a natural level , of such a kind of unpredictable organism that still exists , similar to a rock , and other things , this is unsustainable for us .
one is seadragon , and the other is a very good research on computer vision , which is from noah snavely , a university student at the university of washington , under the advisation of steve seitz at uv .
so , we can &apos;t do these things at all .
we need to prevent people from getting knowledge of things , especially when they &apos;re true .
so you can see how slowly this mechanism is going to resolve , and what the traces that it leaves behind , that are going to lead to something other than in this great picture of ourselves , i want to give you another story .
a particularly beautiful story , i mean .
my wife told me .
she came from school one day , she &apos;s a teacher , and she was telling a student .
an autistic student .
she likes him especially because he has a tendency for sincerity .
and she asked him , what are your hobbies ?
and he says , well , i &apos;m at the fire department .
and rick szeliski of microsoft &apos;s research was done . it &apos;s a very good collaboration .
and because i &apos;m in the fire department , i &apos;m interested in pyrotechnical things .
yes , you feel it when you &apos;re healthier at this point . there &apos;s something wrong .
i told my wife , whenever a man in a moral justification uses the word , we should try to replace it through the word even though .
do that once , and then you learn the sentence .
even though i &apos;m in the fire department , i &apos;m interested in pyrotechnical things .
you feel that &apos;s the real truth behind the origin .
this is a little bub , who doesn &apos;t care about fireflies .
they &apos;re interested in fire .
but there are no clubs that we can look around , where you learn how to make fire .
there &apos;s only the second best , the fire department .
now , a language is not just the overall of the vocabulary or a series of grammar birds .
so this is live on the internet . it &apos;s driven by seadragon .
there he signed up .
and , of course , you don &apos;t say to your teacher that you &apos;d like to put fires somewhere and be happy when the fire blows up afterwards .
no , it just looks a lot better if we show that we &apos;re in charge of eliminating the dangers that others create when they &apos;re just putting fire .
here you have this little mechanism .
this evidence of the fact that in the inside of the bub , the inside of the bub knew that it &apos;s actually related to the fire , but that it can &apos;t say that loud .
here you have this censor between the unconscious and the conscious who jumps right away without being able to do something about it , and the things that you know that you look very different , so that you can sound much better for you and others .
so it &apos;s just the words that we use over and over again in the language of politically correct speech .
in fact , we know that something else is the case .
but we know , when we say that , the social relations are very sensitive .
we can &apos;t just do that .
you can see that when we create these kinds of views where we can go through images and make this experience of the multiple resolution .
it &apos;s impossible to present things like this in a society to work .
now i want to show you what we &apos;ve found in my institute .
what logic does this deception , this self-deception , the willingness to spread a different reality than what we actually know in the unconscious sense that it &apos;s valid to the outside .
i want to present to you two , maybe three examples .
the first example requires what many of you know , and some of you estimate , very few of you don &apos;t need at all .
i mean the soul .
what is the soul ?
the soul is this kind of spiritual thing , says something like leibniz .
it &apos;s something that &apos;s not constigious , material .
and if you have people who are in front of you who are convinced that they have a soul , or you can also say , who believe that they &apos;ve been brought from the soul to life , then they think it &apos;s kind of like the soul is such a spiritual framework of you , not matter , you just from meat and blood , something stone , sort of , to the earth , a decent , devastating , unreliable , unimportant , dead .
but the spatial order of the images is actually important here .
and from that soul , you think that you &apos;re somehow present in this cloudy nature , in this funny nature , anima , it &apos;s called the latin , the air smoke .
and if that air belly then pops over people , it &apos;s filled with dignity , with spirit , with nature that can only live , with soul .
and then he can walk away .
that &apos;s the idea of how the soul works .
so it &apos;s to go from the outside to the human .
so we should perceive them as something that is supposed to be present to our lives .
and if you have this premise in front of you , you understand the logic with which we experience this happiness to be able to improve our world through a lie .
because now you can apply a three-sentence .
you still know three sentences from school .
this is now a three-sentence that describes a logic to us .
the computer vision algorithms have stuck these images together so that they have the real space where these images that are all made in the near grassi lakes in the canadian rockies , and you can see here are elements of stabilized slides or panoramic imaging , and these things are all spatially related to each other .
this is the hardest part of my talk , by the way .
here you need some logic , but also the willingness to lie .
that is to lie so that you can just use this logic wrong .
in this three-sentence , there are three sentences .
the first sentence is , claim , there is no soul .
so the second sentence is , if he &apos;s right , he doesn &apos;t have a soul .
now there &apos;s a third sentence .
i put it out in particular here .
a third sentence that immediately appears to people who have a strong sense of a soul .
they say , who doesn &apos;t have a soul , he &apos;s dead , and he can &apos;t say anything .
i don &apos;t know if i still have time to show you other environments .
and here you feel it .
here comes this logic in this , yes , in this deceptive talk .
you see it immediately .
the first two sentences , they &apos;re logically correct .
because i can claim everything .
logic doesn &apos;t make any statements about reality .
i can say , the chancer is a man .
and if i &apos;m right , the chancer is a man .
if i &apos;m not right , the chancer is not a man .
the logic doesn &apos;t make a point about what &apos;s true .
there are those that are much more spatial .
i can claim everything .
but the key is , if i &apos;m right , it &apos;s true .
so when klaus says , there &apos;s no soul .
second , if he &apos;s right , he doesn &apos;t have a soul .
these things are logically correct .
and now our fake consciousness immediately feels , you can make something out of it .
it depends on a third sentence that has nothing to do with the first two sentences , and it pretends that the opposite of the first sentence is already proven and presented .
because , in fact , we would have to prove whether or not there is the soul .
but with this logic , which it just uses , that two sentences are logically correct and attached to a third that looks like he has something to do with it , so we can save our livelihood .
so , we pretend that it &apos;s actually impossible to live without a soul .
i &apos;d like to show you just one of the original data sets of noah , and this is from an early prototype of photosynth that we &apos;ve been working on in the summer to show you what i think is really the punchline behind this technology , the photosynth-technology , and this is not necessarily so obvious when you look at the environments that we have on the website .
and we &apos;re very happy about it .
we can continue these things in different examples .
in the present , for example , we have a very modern example that keeps filling the daily newspapers .
this is another philosophical topic , a permanent burner from philosophy , you have to be present .
this has to do with the fact that we go back to the fourth century .
there was a scholar named johannes buridanus , and after that , the burian esel is named .
the burian esel is an esel made of pure nature .
it doesn &apos;t have that soul .
this is such a natural thing .
and if you place the exact one in the middle between two equal hairs , he &apos;s starving .
we had to worry about the lawyers and so on .
because he doesn &apos;t know which haystack to go to first .
so it &apos;s right in the middle .
that &apos;s how nature is presented .
the same big forces with opposing signs of the show are resolving each other .
there &apos;s nothing going on at all .
only if you can take another example , so if it immediately makes a haystack bigger , it doesn &apos;t need reason , and it doesn &apos;t need anything .
automatically , he walks to the right thought .
so if you have this idea that you &apos;re kind of driven in nature , determined by the larger pile that &apos;s going to attract you immediately , then you also quickly feel that there must be something like a free will .
and if we &apos;re already here in frankfurt at the main , i remember the max planck institute for brain research .
there &apos;s a scholar called wolf singer , and you sometimes say , wolf singer says there &apos;s no freedom .
this is a reconstruction of the cathedral notre dame , who was only done in the computer with images of flickr . just put in notre lady in flickr , and you &apos;ll get images of men in t-shirts and at the university camps and so on . each of these orange clubs represents a picture that was discovered as a model .
now we can reform the second sentence , and we can say , if wolf has singer right , he has no willingness .
these sentences are absolutely logical and correct .
and what we can now read in the daily newspaper , almost every day , is what you find in this third sentence .
it looks something like this , if you don &apos;t have freedom of willingness , you can &apos;t be drawn to your actions and your claims of responsibility , and therefore it &apos;s unsustainable .
again , you have it again .
in fact , first of all , you &apos;d have to prove whether there &apos;s something like freedom of freedom .
but the logic of deception allows us to pretend that the first sentence of precaution is wrong , as if , of course , you have to take the opposite without proof .
and now you can just , if you want to do anything yourself , if you want to test anything yourself , and especially if you want to make people happy , practice that courage to lie .
practice this , for example , when you meet a person who you can say , there are no predictors .
and please don &apos;t use the german word for prediction , which is prophet .
so these are all flickr images , and they &apos;re all in this space in this way in relation to each other .
you can &apos;t call that , that would be a little bit politically incorrect .
say , there are no predictors .
immediately they become one for which there are , of course , these predictors , you can &apos;t prove that .
and they already have a problem .
because while they &apos;re engaged in making sure that they can &apos;t prove that there are no predictors , the man is very happy .
he &apos;s very happy about it because he deceived it .
because he &apos;s led them to a stain where he doesn &apos;t stop himself .
because , in fact , this person is not interested in evidence .
he &apos;s only interested in maintaining himself from the need to prove that there are predictors .
so , in the way of shifting the evidence burden , you see the brilliance of the lie .
a language is the expression of the human mind .
and we can navigate in this very simple way .
and once again , if you have a chance to feel that triple in other people , you do , because you will make others happy if you don &apos;t remember your self-lie that way .
thank you for your attention .
yeah , good day .
i allowed myself to ask lilly if i could mention it .
she &apos;s one of the subjects here of this great event , and she asked me if i wanted to give a talk here and give my idea to prize .
i have to say , you got it , it was hard for me to talk about my idea at the beginning .
and i might want to introduce my island project to you that i &apos;m trying to imagine you .
but it &apos;s , of course , the sum of a lot of ideas .
i &apos;m probably part of the two nice girls , i &apos;m probably part of the generation that has made this bad green image , because i &apos;ve already started studying machines in carlsquiet , technical college , which is , i think , kit .
and i was struck by the mid-eighty years after berlin , because i wanted to make renewable energy , and that wasn &apos;t there in carlsquiet .
you know , i never believed i was going to work at microsoft .
there was the core research facility called leopoldshafen .
they were all called kfa , and the jewish was also called kfa .
it &apos;s called project carriers today .
because a good engineer either built great cars or nuclear power plants .
but doofes like &quot; n solar pendulum , &quot; which sort of comes out of a hundred watts from the square meter , which was a toy .
and in berlin , there was a crazy engineering collective .
i &apos;m grateful to the premium cola man that he rehabilitated the word again , because after the masonry , you couldn &apos;t use the word anymore , because everything on the left was bad .
but it wasn &apos;t like that in the &apos; 80s .
it was just that there were self-administered alternatives , and one of them was sitting in cluzberg in the countryside , where you suspect the evil .
location of terrorism , but that was called the waseltronics and made wind and solar energy , and i started in the middle of the &apos; 80s .
i &apos;m very grateful for the reception here .
and yes , a lot of what &apos;s been said today , i &apos;m very touched because there were many , many beautiful expressions that i &apos;ve also lived through .
i worked in the collectively for 11 years , which was grassroots .
we were 20 people .
if one said no , the vetoprinzip was a completely crumbling thing , and for 10 years , i &apos;ve been very hard at doubting whether i really wasted my great engineering study , because all my father &apos;s colleagues have always talked to him , you &apos;ve thrown the money out to the window of your child .
it &apos;s about insanity .
and that was really , really bitter , and then you get into that kind of phase , and that was a picture that was going through , where i wondered , after 10 years , a thousand d marks were still , you know , the basic wage , the insignificance in the collective , of course , should that be really the great thing .
and then i got it to six hundred , and then we got together with friends , and i became a co-founder of the solon , which then became one of the largest cell manufacturers in the world with the spin-off cells .
a huge success story , but again , we have , of course , the problem of a growing company , and then we have two thousand , a small group , decided that we &apos;re going to start small again and go back and dedicate ourselves to the next topic of the future , and that is , i think , and it &apos;s kind of crazy again , and that &apos;s going to start by saying , what &apos;s the rubbish , that &apos;s not going to work , we &apos;re talking about stores ?
and i brought you a project that i want to introduce you to .
and the title of the talk was , yes , how to get to a hundred percent renewable .
i suspect you can see that these are many different kinds of cameras : everything from the mobile phone camera to professional slrs , a pretty large number of them that have all been fused together in this environment .
and we &apos;ve just started to ask a relatively simple story , where would you be able to use a memory meaningfully today ?
on this island , this is the island of graciosa on the azors .
yes , that &apos;s the data .
there are four and a half thousand people living there .
they have a five-percent renewable energy rate today .
and the question is , why don &apos;t they have more ?
it just doesn &apos;t work technologically .
if you build more wind force together , the system starts to fail .
i always tell the politicians that when they &apos;re in berlin adlershof , they &apos;re in our facility .
they always say , why ?
and if possible , i &apos;ll find some of the strange ones .
we have 20 percent in germany .
can &apos;t be a problem .
but it &apos;s not true , we have seven percent in europe , and our web is physically the european .
if we had 20 percent in europe , we would have the same problems that people on this island have .
the question was simple , calculated by two-thousandth of 2006 , started the first contacts with the island , just calculate .
how big would it be , in fact , a battery like this , so you could get an island like this to 20 , 30 , 40 , 50 , maybe even 70 percent renewable .
and yes , i &apos;m going to go one more slide .
the conventional system looks like this all over the world .
by the way , about a hundred gigawatts of electrical performance is built on the same basis in the world .
that &apos;s the power of a hundred nuclear power plants , because it &apos;s particularly fast all over the place .
many of you are covered by faces and so on .
the world &apos;s energy hunger that &apos;s happening is deleted with this , because you don &apos;t need permission .
that &apos;s fast .
you put a box like this .
and then it usually looks like this .
in the process , three of these are always running , two are always waited .
yes , this is what one sees at the bottom there is the load .
we also got very precise data .
and the wind system , or the solar system , or whatever it is , is usually a back-up system , or a system that can only feed in small quantities here .
our goal was to just say , okay .
the one is going to be back-up and the wind , sun is going to serve the burden so that they can map the larger portion .
somewhere here is a series of photographs -- here they are .
and if you want to go over 20 , 30 percent renewable energy , so energy per year , not the performance right now , you have to turn off the diesel .
that is , at the moment , you have to make sure that renewables can kind of take over the entire web .
of course , you can only , if you &apos;re manned in any way here .
no one in the world has done that yet .
this is in a small style , so you can also use your razor in the car over a little change judge .
people always ask me , what do you do research in adlershof ?
that &apos;s what &apos;s going on .
but if you want to put together several of these intersections , and they want to build a web , it &apos;s going to be very complicated .
and our goal was , we wanted to get to 70 to 40 percent renewable , and then there &apos;s this rest , the last 10 , 20 percent renewable , that &apos;s going to be very , very expensive , and that &apos;s not going to work , that you do it from batteries .
this is going to be an energy carrier , which then , hydrogen , methane , power to gas , you know , or sh , it &apos;s going to be .
this is actually a poster by notre dame , which was recorded properly .
you have to go to a season store and make a winter summer and not just day night .
we just wanted to know what about a normal , stinky electrochemical battery .
how far do you get there ?
and then they did a lot of simulations .
and wind and sun simulated and the load and came to the conclusion , a very exciting conclusion that you get to the conventional system , which , after 20 years , takes about 50 cents a kilowatt-hour , about 40 cents per kilowatt-hour .
these were the very first calculations six years ago .
and then we said , okay .
if you &apos;re great , then we have a business model .
we &apos;re cheaper than the same system when the same price goes up five percent a year .
and then we started negotiating with the insulanders .
we can move from the poster to a physical view of this environment .
what would have to be done ?
have negotiated with investors , i &apos;ve been looking for new social shepherds .
we were only five people then to rebuild a society .
and here &apos;s the representation again .
the brown is , in a way , the conventional system , the green is our system .
that our system also has a price increase , because we &apos;re going to do 20 percent with this , and we &apos;re not going to go through a price increase in the other things .
and the power-utility , which is the power company on the island , has meant that we love it .
we also want to support , but we don &apos;t believe you can solve the technical problem .
and so we decided to build a hall in berlin , where we can sort of map the electric proportions of the island at the scale of one in three .
that is , we &apos;ve been looking for the largest battery in the world .
the point here is that we can do things with the social environment . it &apos;s now collected data from everybody -- from the whole collective memory of what , visually , the earth looks like -- and everything is connected together .
here it is .
it comes naturally from asia , in the case of japan .
and funny , in the &apos; 70s , she &apos;s been developed at bc mannheim , today abb , and then she &apos;s licensed to the japanese .
it &apos;s a very , very large battery , you can see .
it &apos;s got a megawatt performance , and it can get this performance for six hours , and that &apos;s the battery that we &apos;ve sort of gotten out simultaneously .
and then they set them up .
we also have brought one of these same aggregate in the same size that it &apos;s standing there , into the hall , to actually simulate the entire dynamic behavior of this web , so in the hall , it &apos;s now looking like this , and there &apos;s the big battery in the back , here &apos;s the big battery , here &apos;s all the judges that we simulate the web with .
over here , we simulate the whole transmission system , the kilometers of physics of cables , to sort of map the vibrational behavior on the web .
and here you can see the whole thing again .
we can also turn up two hundred kilowatts of photovoltaics on the web .
and of course , we all share the same adaptation needs .
it &apos;s a means by which the soul of a certain culture finds access to the material world .
all these photographs are connected together , and there &apos;s something bigger than the sum of the parts .
here we see this again here , again , the diesel again , all of the individual aggregate .
and what we &apos;ve done since the last two thousand , the hall was finished , until now , two-thousand-odd , basically everything that was going on between the individual system of electronics to develop software , we &apos;ve done .
so we &apos;re not a battery manufacturer , but we &apos;re defining ourselves as a company that &apos;s only between the battery and the topic of the web and everything in between .
you have to communicate to the battery , of course , you have to be able to communicate to the web , and it &apos;s very complicated .
the beauty of this is that , in fact , on this island , you can actually take away everything from problems that we &apos;re going to get if we want to increase our share of renewables .
so this whole discussion of how to move back and forth at the moment , energy , how to do that , on the island , we have , for example , five to 30 percent excess energy , so we &apos;re tired of the wind and the sun .
natural light then offers smart-grid .
so smart-grid , a huge topic everywhere .
we can start to integrate electrical mobility on the island , ask , because you can manage the load .
that is , if you &apos;re seven percent renewable , you &apos;re not going to be able to do that without storage .
you get a model that comes from all over the earth .
you can go through &apos; n smart-grid , &apos; n smart-grid , &apos; you can build the nets , &apos; yes , that &apos;s definitely what you should do , &apos; you can hear the percentage , but you &apos;ll never be able to completely disseminate from memory .
and that &apos;s the message .
that &apos;s why a lot of people come and look at this , because you can see what problems you get .
if we turn the diesel off , you don &apos;t have this rotating mass that causes a certain inertia on the web .
and our european network is basically just made of loud rotating masses of big power plants , where the wave is always all around europe .
we look in this web , we see the 50 hertz , and when it becomes ninety-four comma nine hertz , we start to make some valves , then we go back in a little bit of a merry steam , then we come back up again .
this is the system .
and of course , this is incredibly valuable .
if you tear that down somewhere , it takes a while .
the spinning reserve has at least 10 seconds to keep the net stable .
think of this as the continuation of the work of stephen lawlers on virtual earth .
and in time , you can react to other things .
if you don &apos;t have that anymore , this rotating mass , you have to replace that with performance electronics and electrochemistry .
and we can turn two milliseconds out with this big battery .
you can see , there are enormous speeds there .
and the message is , we have to go to these rotating masses , if we &apos;re going to sort of 20 , 20 , 20 percent , 20 , 30 , 30 percent , and so on , if we &apos;re going to reach them .
then we have to rebuild our must-run capacity on the web .
must-run is simply , the power plant is running to keep the frequency .
yes , that &apos;s a huge debate at the moment , building the coal plant , because we don &apos;t , or gasturbating , because it &apos;s not going to work .
and we &apos;re just trying to make it clear that you can degrade the capacity , the must-run capabilities , by bringing electrochemical stores to the web .
and luckily , there are a lot of studies now .
and this is something that &apos;s growing through the complexity with which people use it , and its use for the user is getting bigger and bigger .
and then , to that point , people always come and look at our test , sort of , at our island test .
and yes , the discussion is always about the question of how far can you take a piece of the future .
and many discussions that i &apos;ve had in the last six years have been similar to the discussion that i &apos;ve had in the last 30 years on photovoltaics .
if it &apos;s not , it &apos;s infancy , it &apos;s infant toy , we &apos;ve calculated everything , we never calculate .
we have 30 gigawatts of photovoltaics in germany today .
this is preconceived .
and i just assume that in the next 30 years , we will have the same capacity of electrochemical stores around the world .
that &apos;s how it &apos;s going to come .
there will be a lot of resistance and arguments .
the beautiful thing is , i &apos;ve experienced , in the last two years , that the scientists are putting themselves on my side .
their own photos are covered with metadata that another person has given in .
we &apos;ve now gotten over 10 million funding projects , also to climb 10 megawatt-battery now to the german net .
this is going to happen next april .
so you also realize that there &apos;s a change going on , and it &apos;s only from this defense to yes , to the idea that a hundred percent renewable is true .
and if you have a hundred percent renewable , it &apos;s like an autarke system .
so far , in discussions , these insulanders are always trying to do things like autark , they have their own little web , which has nothing to do with our compound .
the question is , quite simply , if you &apos;re totally independent of any fossil or ancient energy creators that are drilled out somewhere in the world and brought to you , you &apos;re an island .
then you just use what &apos;s there on the sun and the wind , where you live .
and this is a little bit of our vision of a reasonable energy supply , and i &apos;m also grateful for cradle-to-cradle , that they said , use solar energy .
and that &apos;s what we do , and as far as we get , the talk of premium kola , that you can be a collective again , and use solar energy , here &apos;s a little bit of it .
and yes , i just want to encourage you , in the sense that you can be a little crazy and also have a vision .
if someone has been tired of it and labeled all these saints and told who they are , suddenly my photo is enriched by the notre dam cathedral with all this data , and i can use it as a starting point to dive into this room , into these metaverse that uses photos of other people , and make a kind of overwhelming model social experience with the use of other providers .
and you really have to stay pretty tough , but i think it &apos;s going to work .
thank you .
when steve lopez , the columnist of los angeles times , went through the streets one day in the center of los angeles , he heard a wonderful music .
she came from a man , an african-american , sympathetic , rau , homeless , who played on a violin that had only two more strings .
many of you will know the story , because from steves &apos;s article about it later on , a book that was filmed again with robert downey junior when steve lopez and jamie foxx was a nathaniel anthony ayers , the contractor who studied at juilliar conservatory and whose promising career was tragically ended through his paranoid schizophrenia early .
nathaniel left juilliard , he suffered a nerve breakdown , and 30 years later , he lived as a homeless person on the streets of skid row in the center of los angeles .
i recommend all of you to read steves &apos;s book , or look at the movie , so that you can understand not just the wonderful interconnectedness that was created between these two men , but also how the music helped make that connection , and how it ended up being the instrument if that word game is allowed to get the mithalf , nathaniel away from the street .
i met mr ayers in 2008 , two years ago , in walt disney concert hall .
he had just heard a demonstration of beethoven &apos;s first and fourth symphony , and he came behind the stage to imagine me .
he talked about yo-yo ma and hillary clinton in a very hotter and gregarious sound , and how the dodgers would never make it into the baseball world series , and all of that because of the delightful passage of the first violin in the last sentence of beethoven &apos;s fourth symphony .
and of course , byproduct of all of this is the immensely rich virtual models of any interesting part of the earth that are not only preserved by overwhelming or satellite images and so on , but by collective storage .
we got to talk about music , and a few days later , i got an email saying that nathaniel was interested in gallery .
i have to mention that nathaniel rejected a medical treatment , because he had been treated with electroshocks and thorazine and handcuffs , a trauma that followed him all his life .
as a result , he &apos;s now particularly vulnerable to these schizophrenic phases , and they &apos;re sometimes so bad , and he &apos;s disappearing in the streets of skid row , always exposed to this horror and the torture source of his own mind .
and in the same time that a rice stage , nathaniel was when we started our first lesson in the walt disney hall , and he had this irre flicker in his eyes , and he was completely lost .
he talked about invisible demons and smoke and how someone wanted to poison him in the sleep .
i was afraid , not mine , but i was afraid that i could lose him , that he could sink into one of his circumstances , and that i could destroy his relationship to the violin , when i started talking about clay and arpeggios and other exciting forms of didactic pedal .
so i just started playing .
i played the first sentence by beethoven &apos;s violin concert .
and while i was playing , i noticed that in nathanite &apos;s eyes , there was a complete change going on .
it was as if he was standing under the influence of an invisible doctor , a chemical response , whose catalyst was my game .
thank you .
nathaniels of manic anger turned into understanding , into quiet curiosity and courage .
and like a miracle , he took his violin , and he started playing some pieces of violin concerts , and then he asked me to end them : mendelsson , tshaikowski , sibelius .
we then started talking about music , starting from bach to beethoven , brahms , bruckner and all the other bs , from bartok to esa pekka salons .
and i realized that not only did he have an encyclopedical knowledge about music , but he also had a close personal relationship with it .
he was talking about her with a passion and an understanding that i otherwise only know about my colleagues in the philharmony of los angeles .
by playing music and talking about music , this paranoid , confused man who had just moved through the streets of los angeles , a loving , educated , sketched , sketched , in juilliard of trained musicians .
music is medicine . music changes us .
for nathaniel , music means mental health .
because the music allows him to reform his thoughts and delusions with his imagination and creativity into something real .
and so he escapes his agonizing conditions .
do i understand it right ? your software enables , at a certain point , within the next few years , all the images that are used by someone in the world are basically connected ?
i understood that this is the nature of art .
this is why we make music : so that we can form something that is deep inside of all of us , our feelings , through our artistic lens , through our creativity for reality .
and the reality of that expression reaches all of us , and moves , inspired and agreed .
in terms of nathaniel , the music brought him back into a community of friends .
the triggering power of music brought him back to a family of musicians who understood him , who recognized his talent and paid attention to him .
and i &apos;ll keep playing with nathaniel , whether in walt disney concert hall or in skid row , because he reminds me of why i became a musician .
thank you .
bruno giussani : thank you very much . thank you .
robert gupta .
robert gupta : i want to play something that i &apos;ve stolen the cellist .
yes . it does nothing but discovery .
i hope you &apos;ll forgive me .
so i knew a lot of fish in my life .
i just loved two .
this first one , this was more like a passionate monkey .
it was a beautiful fish , tasty , good consistency , payful , a bestseller on the menu .
what a fish .
even better , he was raised in aquaculture after the most supposedly highest standards of sustainability .
so you could feel comfortable selling it .
i had a relationship with this beauty for several months .
one day , the head of the company called and asked if i could do a session about the sustainability of the farm .
every language is like an old-fashioned forest of the mind , a turning point , a thought , an ecosystem of spiritual possibilities .
if you want to create them hyperlinks between the images .
&quot; of course , &quot; i said .
here was a company trying to solve what has become this unimaginable problem for our chefs . how do we keep fish on our menus ?
in the last 50 years , we &apos;ve fished the oceans as we &apos;ve beaten forests .
it &apos;s hard to overestimate the destruction .
90 percent of the big fish that we love , the tunas , the healing butte , the salmon , the heavy fish , they &apos;ve collapsed .
there &apos;s almost nothing left .
so , i think or evil aquaculture , fisheries , will be part of our future .
a lot of arguments about it . fishing polluts the environment , most of you anyway , and they &apos;re inefficient , we take tuna . a big disadvantage .
he &apos;s got a 15 to one food processing .
that is , 15 pounds of wild fish are required to get a pound of sugar tuna .
and it does this because of the content in the images .
not very sustainable .
doesn &apos;t taste very good either .
so here was finally a company trying to do it right .
i wanted to support them .
the day before the event , i called the head of public work for the company .
let &apos;s call it don .
don , i said , &quot; just to have the facts right , you &apos;re famous for growing so far out in the sea that you &apos;re not polluting the environment . &quot;
&quot; that &apos;s true , &quot; he said . &quot; we &apos;re so far outside that the waste is distributed by our fish , not concentrated . &quot;
and then he added , &quot; we &apos;re basically a world of our own .
this food usage of 2.5 to one , &quot; he said .
and that &apos;s really exciting when you think about the abundance of semantic information that many of these pictures have .
&quot; the best in the industry . &quot;
2.5 to one , great .
&quot; 2.5 to one ? what do you feed ? &quot;
&quot; sustainable proteins , &quot; he said .
&quot; great , &quot; i said . put up .
and that night i was in bed thinking , what the hell is a sustainable protein ?
so i called the next day , just before the event , don &apos;t call .
i said , &quot; don , what are sustainable proteins ? &quot;
he said he doesn &apos;t know . he &apos;s going to ask .
now , i was telephones with a few people in the company , and nobody could give me a proper answer , until i finally telephones with the leading biologists .
how if you do a web search for images , where you type in sentences , and the text of the website contains a lot of information about what image that is .
let &apos;s call it don &apos;t .
don , i said , &quot; for example , what are sustainable proteins ? &quot;
well , he mentioned some algae and some fish meals , and then he said , chicken pellets .
i said , &quot; chicken pellets ? &quot;
he said , &quot; yes , feathers , skin , bone flour , remains , dried and processed into food . &quot;
i said , &quot; what percentage of your food is chicken ? &quot;
in the assumption of maybe two percent .
&quot; well , that &apos;s about 30 percent , &quot; he said .
i said , &quot; don , what &apos;s sustainable about feeding chicken to fish ? &quot;
there was a long pause in the guidance , and he said , &quot; there &apos;s just too much chicken in the world . &quot;
but what if the picture connects you to all your images ?
i fell in love with this fish .
no , not because i &apos;m a self-righteous and good person .
that &apos;s actually me .
no , i actually fell in love with this fish , because , i swear to god , who &apos;s smashed fish after this conversation for chicken .
this second fish , this is a different kind of love story .
it &apos;s the romantic way , the more you know your fish , the more you love the fish .
i ate it first in a restaurant in southern spain .
a friend of mine was talking about this fish for a long time .
it kind of wired us up .
he came to the table with a bright , almost shameful white color .
then the scope of the semantic cross connection and the abundance that comes out of it is really enormous . it &apos;s a classic network effect .
the chef had cooked it .
stop twice .
amazingly , he was still delicious .
who can make a fish taste so good after it was cooked ?
i can &apos;t , but this guy can .
let &apos;s call it miguel . in fact , it &apos;s called miguel .
and no , he didn &apos;t cook the fish , and he &apos;s not a chef , at least the way you and i understand it .
he &apos;s a biologist at veta la palma .
this is a fish elevator in the southwestern corner of spain .
it &apos;s near the mouths of the river of guadalquivir .
blaise , that &apos;s really incredible . heart congratulations .
until the 1980s , the farm was in the hands of argentina .
they were growing meat cattle on what was basically wetlands .
they did that by taking the land out .
they built this complicated consequence of channels , and they pushed water out of the country and out into the river .
well , they couldn &apos;t make sure that this worked , not economically .
and it was an ecological disaster .
it killed about 90 percent of the birds , which is the place that many birds are .
and so in 1982 , a spanish company with environmental awareness bought the country .
what did they do ?
they &apos;ve reversed the flow of the water .
thank you very much .
they &apos;ve literally transformed the lever .
instead of pushing the water out , they used the channels to pull the water back in .
they flew the channels .
they created a 11,000 hectares of fish -- bark , seafood , shrimp , aal -- and they have miguel and his company completely reversed the ecological destruction .
the farm is incredible .
i mean , you &apos;ve never seen anything like this .
they stare out on the horizon , which is a million miles away , and all they see is cursed channels and this dense , lush march .
i was there not long ago with miguel .
he &apos;s an incredible guy , three parts charles darwin and a part of &quot; a crocodile to kiss . &quot;
okay ? there we were , fighting through the wetlands , and i &apos;m keuch and sweating , having matsch to my knees , and miguel is still giving us a biology lecture .
i &apos;m going to tell you some things from my book that , as i hope , are in harmony with other things that you &apos;ve already heard , and i &apos;m going to try to make some connections myself if you haven &apos;t noticed them .
here he is highlighting a rare equtaar .
now he mentioned the mineral needs of phytoplankton .
and here , he sees a pattern of bundles that reminds him of the tanzanian giraffe .
it turns out that miguel spent most of his career in mikumi national park in africa .
i asked him how he became such a fish expert .
he said , &quot; fish ? i don &apos;t know anything about fish .
i &apos;m an expert in relationships . &quot;
and then he goes and falls into more of the rare birds and algae and strange water plants .
and don &apos;t get me wrong , that was really fascinating , you know , the biotic community unplugged , like that .
it &apos;s great , but i was in love .
i want to start with what i call &quot; official dogma . &quot;
and my head became weak about this cooked piece of delicious fish that i had at the end of the day .
so i interrupted it . i said , &quot; miguel , how come your fish tastes so good ? &quot;
he pointed out the algae .
&quot; i know , boy , the algae , the phytoplankton , the relationships , that &apos;s incredible .
but what do your fish eat ?
what is the food processing ? &quot;
now , he continues to tell me that it &apos;s such a rich system that the fish eat what they eat in the wild .
the plant biomass , the phytoplankton , the zooplankton , is what feeds the fish .
the system is so healthy , it &apos;s completely self-restorative .
there &apos;s no food .
and of those 6,000 languages today , while we &apos;re sitting here in monterey , just half of them are not whispered into the ears of children .
the official dogma of what ?
any of the stuff that &apos;s ever heard of a farm that your animals don &apos;t feed ?
later on the day , i was driving around on this site with miguel , and i asked him , i said , &quot; for a place that seems so natural , &quot; unlike any farm i &apos;d ever been to , &quot; how do you measure success ? &quot;
at the moment , it was as if a film director had demanded a stage change .
and we bent around the corner , and we got the most incredible sight , thousands and thousands of pink flamingos , a literally pink carpet , so far as the eye goes .
&quot; that &apos;s success , &quot; he said .
&quot; look at your stocks , pink .
they &apos;re bad . &quot;
bad ? i was completely confused .
i said , &quot; miguel , don &apos;t you drag your fish ? &quot;
&quot; yes , &quot; he said .
the official belief set of all western industrialized societies .
&quot; we lose 20 percent of our fish and fish eggs to the birds .
well , last year , on this site , 600,000 birds , were over 250 different species .
it &apos;s become the largest and one of the most important private avian reserves in all of europe today .
i said , &quot; miguel , is a well-flourished bird population not the last thing you want on a fish elevator ? &quot;
he was shaking his head , no .
he said , &quot; we &apos;re building extensively , not intensely .
this is an ecological network .
the flamingos eat the shrimp .
the shrimp eats the phytoplankton .
so the more pink the belly , the better the system . &quot;
the official dogma works like this : if our goal is to maximize the public well-being of our citizens , this is especially through maximizing the freedom of the individual .
okay , let &apos;s rethink that . a farm that doesn &apos;t feed its animals and a farm that measures its success in the health of its predators .
a fish elevator , but also a bird reserve .
oh , and by the way , these flamingos should not even be there .
they breed in a city of 240 miles away , where the ground nature is better for the nest maintenance .
every morning , they fly 240 miles to the farm .
and every night , they fly back 240 miles .
they do that because they can follow the strict white line on the highway a92 .
seriously .
i had sort of imagined a journey of penguins , so i looked at miguel .
i said , &quot; miguel , do you fly 240 miles to the farm and then fly it 240 miles back at night ?
the reason for this is that freedom is good in itself , valuable , meaningful , an unsustainable condition for the human .
do you do that for the kids ? &quot;
he looked at me as if i had just quoted a song by whitney houston .
he said , &quot; no . you do that because the food is better . &quot;
i didn &apos;t mention the skin of my beloved fish , which was delicious , and i don &apos;t like fish skin . i don &apos;t like it clean . i don &apos;t like it .
it &apos;s this pungent , costly taste .
i almost never cook with it .
and yet , when i tried it in this restaurant in southern spain , it didn &apos;t smash for fish skin at all .
it tasted sweet and pure , as if you were to take a bite from the ocean .
i mentioned this to miguel , and he was nodding .
he said , &quot; the skin looks like a sponge .
if people have freedom , then each of us is about doing the things that our public good is about and nobody has to decide for us .
it &apos;s the last defense before something comes into the body .
it &apos;s evolved over evolution to look for uncertainty . &quot;
and then he said , &quot; but our water doesn &apos;t have any disputes . &quot;
okay . a farm that doesn &apos;t feed its fish , a farm that measures its success in the success of their predators .
and then i realized , when he says , a farm that doesn &apos;t have any disputes , it underpins tremendous , because the water that flows through this farm comes in from the river of guadalquivir .
it &apos;s a river that leads all the things that rivers today tend to lead them , chemical pollutants , abundance of pest control .
and when it fought through the system , and this leaves the water is cleaner than how it came in .
the system is so healthy , it cleans the water .
so not just a farm that feeds their animals , not just a farm that measures their success in the health of their predators , but a farm that is literally a water supply facility , and not just for these fish , but for you and me .
because when the water flows out , it goes down in the atlantic .
the way to maximize freedom is to maximize choice .
a drop in the ocean , i know , but i &apos;m going to take it , and that &apos;s what you should do , because this love story , however romantic , is also the enlightenment .
you might say that it &apos;s a recipe for the future of good food , whether we &apos;re talking about bark or meat cattle .
what we need now is a radical new concept of agriculture , of one where food actually tastes good .
but for many people , it &apos;s a little too radical .
we &apos;re not realists , we &apos;re more enjoyable . we &apos;re lovers .
we love weekly markets . we love small family businesses . we talk about local food . we eat bio .
and if you say that these are the things that insure the future of good food , somebody gets up somewhere and says , &quot; hey , people , i love pinke flamingos , but how will you feed the world ?
how will they feed the world ? &quot;
can i be honest ?
i don &apos;t like that question .
the more choices people have , the more freedom they have , and the more freedom they have , the more public good they have .
no , not because we &apos;re producing enough calories to feed the world more than just .
a billion people are going to starve today .
a billion -- that &apos;s more than ever before -- because of crasser inequalities in distribution , not the total production .
now , i don &apos;t like that question , because it &apos;s defined the logic of our food system for the last 50 years .
feeding grain of herbivores , skull fights of monocultures , chemicals to the earth , chicken of fish , and all the time the agricultural industry just asked , &quot; if we feed more people cheaper , how terrible can that be ? &quot;
that was the cause . it was the justification . it was the business plan of american agriculture .
we should call it what it is , a commercial in the wrap , a commercial that quickly ecological capital , that allows this production to happen .
this is not a commercial , and it &apos;s not agriculture .
our grain chamber is threatened today , not because of the declining , but because of the declining resources .
not through the latest mice and tractor inventions , but through fertile land , not through pumps , but through fresh water , not through chains , but through forests , and not through fishing boats and nets , but through fish in the sea .
this is , i think , so deep in our water supply that it would not come to your mind to question it .
you want to feed the world ?
let &apos;s start with the question : how are we going to feed ourselves ?
or better , how can we create conditions that enable every community to feed itself ?
to do that , don &apos;t look at the agricultural model for the future .
it &apos;s really old , and it &apos;s done .
capital , chemistry and machines are on top of it , and it has never produced anything really good for food .
instead , let &apos;s look at the ecological model .
that &apos;s what goes back to two billion years of working experience .
look at miguel , farmers like miguel .
operations that are not worlds for themselves , operations that are restoring instead of using , operations that are expanding extensively , instead of just intense , farmers that are not only generators , but experts for relationships .
and it &apos;s also deeply rooted in our lives .
because they are the ones who are also experts for taste .
and if i &apos;m really honest , you &apos;re a better chef than i &apos;ll ever be .
you know , i &apos;m right , because if that &apos;s the future of good food , it will be delicious .
thank you .
now , if i want to bring one thing to you today is that the total of the data that we consume is bigger than the sum of their parts , and instead of thinking about information overlap , i want you to think about how we can use information so that patterns emerge , and so we can see trends that would not have been visible .
so what we see here is a typical dying diagram of age .
the program that i &apos;m using here is a little experiment .
it &apos;s called pivot , and what i can do with pivot is i can filter for a particular cause of death , let &apos;s say accidents .
and immediately i see another pattern that comes out .
and that &apos;s because in the middle area , people are the most active , and they &apos;re the most fragile over here .
i &apos;m going to give you some examples of what makes us modern progress .
we can take a step further and then rearrange the data and see that circular disease and cancer are the usual suspects , but not for everyone .
now , as we go forward and sort of age , we say 40 years or more , we see that accidents are actually the main cause that people should worry about .
and if you look at the research , it &apos;s particularly true of men .
so you can see that looking at information and data in this way is very much reminiscent of swimming in a living information graph .
and if we can do this for raw data , why not for content itself ?
now what we have here are the cover images of every single sports illustrated that have ever been printed .
it &apos;s all here . it &apos;s all online .
you can test it after my talk in your rooms .
with pivot , you can dive into a decade .
you can dive into a particular year .
they &apos;re not taught to little kids anymore . that is , if nothing is done , they &apos;re actually dead .
this is my supermarket . not a big one .
they can jump directly to a certain issue .
now , when i look here , i see the athletes that appear in this issue and the sports .
i &apos;m a lance armstrong fan , so i click on what i &apos;m going to show all the spending that lance armstrong is mentioned in .
now , if i just want to get a bigger overview , i could think , &quot; ok , what if i look at the subject of biking ? &quot;
so i &apos;m going to take a step back and i &apos;m going to take a look .
now i see greg lemond .
and so you get an idea that if you go through this kind of information , target , broader , zoom out , zoom out , you don &apos;t look or browse .
you do something that &apos;s actually a little different .
it &apos;s something in between , and we think it changes the way information can be used .
now i want to take this idea a little further with something like what &apos;s a little crazy .
i just want to say a little bit about salatdressing .
what we &apos;ve done here is we &apos;ve taken every single wikipedias and we &apos;ve reduced them to a little summary .
the summary contains a short overview and a symbol of the area that it comes from .
i &apos;ll just show the top 500 of the most popular wikipedias .
but even in this limited view , we can do a lot of things .
immediately , we get a sense of the topics that are most popular on wikipedia .
now i &apos;m going to choose the government .
now , after i &apos;ve chosen government , i realize that the wikipediacatories that are the most covering time magazine are &quot; people of the year . &quot;
this is really important , because this is a realization that is not in a single wikipedias .
that &apos;s just to see if you go back and look at the whole thing .
looking at a certain set of summaries , i can then go into the theme of time magazine &quot; people of the year , &quot; and see everybody together .
there are 175 dressings in my supermarket , if you don &apos;t count the 10 different extra olive oil , and 12 balsamios that you could buy to make a large number of your own salad dessings , in the unlikely case that none of the 175 is right in the store for you .
now if i look at all these people , i realize that the majority of them are government officials , some of them come from science , some of them , even less , come from the economy . here &apos;s my boss . and one comes from the music sector .
and interestingly , bono is also a ted prize winner .
so we can jump and look at all the ted prize winners .
you can see , we &apos;re surfing on the web for the first time as if it &apos;s actually a web , not just from side to side , but much more abstract .
and so i want to show you something else that could be a little bit of a surprise .
i &apos;m just showing you the new york times website here .
pivot , this application -- i don &apos;t want to call it a browser ; it &apos;s really not a browser , but you can look at websites with it -- and we bring this zoom-technology to every single website like this .
so i can take a step back and jump right to a specific section .
so this is important because you can only look at websites in this way , the whole internet course in the same way .
so i can zoom in on my trajectory in a certain time frame .
so this is what the supermarket is like .
here &apos;s the state of the whole demonstration that i &apos;ve held to this .
and i can , in a way , get back to anything i &apos;ve looked at today .
and , again , if i take a step out and look at everything , maybe i can rearrange my trajectory for my search past . here , i was looking for &apos; nepotistic &apos; here , here for bing , or here to live labs pivot .
and from here , i can go into the page and call it up again .
it &apos;s a metaphor that &apos;s used over and over again , and every time it makes the whole picture bigger than the sum of the file .
right now , in this world , we think data is a curse .
we &apos;re talking about the curse of information overload .
we talk about &quot; drowning in information . &quot;
what if we could turn this situation around and turn the internet upside down , so that instead of going from one to another , we can start to go from a lot of things to a lot of things , and by seeing patterns that would have otherwise remained hidden ?
if we can do that , then this kind of data trap is going to make sense , maybe a new source of information .
and then they go to the consumer electronics business to put together a stereo system -- loudspeakers , cd players , a cassette player , radio , amplifier , and in this one electronics business , there are so many stereo facilities .
and , instead of just moving into information , we can get knowledge from it .
and if we know , maybe we can even draw wisdom from it .
so i &apos;ll stop , thank you very much .
i grew up with a beloved portion of science fiction .
in my school time , i went to school with the bus , one hour per day .
and my nose always stuck in a book , a science fiction book , which kidnapped my thoughts into other worlds , and in a narrative way satisfied my deep , insatiable curiosity .
this curiosity also turned out that whenever i wasn &apos;t in school , i was walking through the forests and gathering &quot; samples , &quot; frogs and snakes and beetles and dough water , i brought it home and looked at it under the microscope .
i was really excited about science , you know .
it was all about trying to understand the world and to explore the limits of the possible .
and my love of science fiction seemed to reflect in my environment , because back in the late &apos; 60s , we flew to the moon and explored the deep sea .
we can put together 6.5 million different stereo plants from the components that are offered in this one business .
jacques cousteau came to our living rooms with his fascinating shows that showed us animals and places and a world of wonder that we could never have imagined before .
that &apos;s probably very well adapted to that science fiction role .
and i was an artist .
i could draw . i could paint .
and since there was neither video games nor this oversaw with computer-generated movies , nor all the imagery in the media landscape , i had to create the images in my head .
we all had to do that . if we read a book as children , we took the description of the author and we projected it on the canvas in our heads .
my response to that was to draw and paint aliens , alien worlds , robots , spacecraft and all that kind of thing .
in math class , i was always caught by the teacher , like me , hiding behind the textbook , drawing around .
creativity had to sort of get out .
and something interesting happened , because what fascinated me about jacques cousteaus &apos;s shows was the idea of a completely unknown world here on earth itself .
you have to admit that this is a big selection .
certainly , i would never achieve an alien world with a spaceship , and it seemed pretty unlikely to me .
but here was a world that i could actually enter , here on earth , and it was as fascinating and exotic as all the things that i had always imagined when i was reading these books .
so , when i was 15 , i decided to be a diver .
the only problem was that i lived in a small village in canada , 1,000 miles from the next ocean .
but i didn &apos;t discourage from that .
i buffalo , until he finally found out a dive school in buffalo , new york , right on the other side of the border where we lived .
i made my trade-off in a pool of ymca in the middle of the winter in buffalo , new york .
but the ocean , a real ocean , i only got to see two years later when we moved to california .
since then , in the 40 years that are denied , i &apos;ve spent about 3,000 hours underwater , 500 hours in submersibles .
and i &apos;ve learned that the world of the deep sea , even in the flat oceans , is as rich in fascinating life as we can really hardly imagine .
in other areas -- the world of communication .
the imagination of nature doesn &apos;t know the limits , as opposed to our own , dazzling human imagination .
to this day , i feel the deepest awe for what i see on my dives .
and my love of the ocean is stopping with the same intensity as ever .
and when i was an adult , i was looking for a job , it was a filmmaking .
this seemed the best way to tell my inner stories , with my need to create images , to unite .
as a child , i was constantly drawing comic books and so on .
so movies were the way to bring images and stories together . that was the same .
of course , the stories i chose were from the science fiction area : &quot; terminator , &quot; &quot; &quot; aliens , &quot; and &quot; abyss . &quot;
at abyss , i was able to connect my preferences to the underwater world and the diving to the filmmaking .
so my two passions sort of intertwined .
there was a time when i was a boy , you could have every telephone that you wanted , as long as it came from ma bell .
something interesting happened in &quot; abyss &quot; : to solve a narrative problem in this film -- and that is , we had to create a kind of liquid water creature -- we went back to computer-generated animation , cg , cg .
what came out of that was the first computer-generated software surface-character that was ever seen in a movie .
the film didn &apos;t bring in money , in fact , he just played his production cost , but i noticed something fascinating : the audience around the world was like hypnotized by the magic that went off .
according to arthur clarke &apos;s law , you know , advanced technology and magic are no longer different from each other .
so they saw something magical .
and i found this incredibly exciting .
and i thought to myself , &quot; wow , that has to be involved in film art . &quot;
so we went to &quot; terminator 2 , &quot; my next movie , much further .
together with ilm , we created the liquid metal guy there , and the success depended entirely on how this effect would come about .
and it worked . again , we had created something magical , and the effect in the audience was the same , but we &apos;ve played a little more money with the movie .
they rented their phone . they didn &apos;t buy it .
from these two experiences , a whole new world was achieved , a whole new world of creativity for filmmakers .
so i started a company , along with my good friend , stan winston , who was the best makeup and creator designer at that time , called digital domain .
the basic idea of this company was to skip over the phase of analogous processes with optical printers , etc . , and start with digital productions .
and we did that , and we made a competitive advantage for a while .
but in the mid- &apos; 90s , we realized that in the creature and design -- which we had actually started the company -- we were getting too slow to start .
i had written this piece called &quot; avatar , &quot; which was supposed to push the measurements of visual effects and computer-generated effects all over new heights , with realistic human , expressive characters that had been made using cg , and the main characters should be all cg , and the world should be cg .
but the measurement pole was quite beautiful , and the people in my company told me that we &apos;re not going to be able to do that .
so i shifted that , and i made this other film about the big ship that goes down .
the film studio , i sold this as &quot; romeo and julia on a ship , &quot; and it became a love film of epic scale , a passionate movie .
but secretly , i really wanted to dive down to the real wreck of the titanic .
what could be more lonely than being surrounded by the silence , being one of the last of your people who speaks your language , not having the ability to pass on the wisdom of the ancestors , or expecting the hope of children ?
a consequence of that was that the phone was never broken .
that &apos;s why i made the movie .
that &apos;s the truth . the studio didn &apos;t know that .
but i convinced them by saying , &quot; we &apos;re diving to the wreck . we &apos;re filming the real wreck .
we &apos;re going to show it in the opening sequence of the film .
this is incredibly important . it &apos;s a good follower for marketing . &quot;
and i promised them to fund an expedition .
sounds crazy . but it goes back to the fact that your imagination can create a reality .
we actually created a reality six months later , where i found myself in a russian dive boat , four kilometers below the surface of the north atlantic , looking at the real titanic through a bulleye .
it wasn &apos;t a movie , it wasn &apos;t a hd , it was real .
so , that really blew my mind .
these days are over .
and the preparation to do that was enormous . we had to build cameras and headlights and everything .
and i noticed how much these deep-sea tracks were like a space mission .
well , they were also highly technical , and they needed extensive planning .
you go up into this capsule , then you float down into this dark , hostile environment , where there is no hope for rescue , if you don &apos;t make it yourself back .
and i thought , &quot; wow , that &apos;s as if i was in a science fiction movie .
that &apos;s really cool . &quot;
i was really obsessed with exploring the deep sea .
anyway , from the part that had to do with curiosity and science , it was all . it was adventure , it was curiosity . it was imagination .
and it was an experience that hollywood couldn &apos;t give me .
because , you know , i could imagine a creature where we could then design a visual effect , but i couldn &apos;t imagine what i would see outside the window .
we now have almost an infinite choice of telephones , especially in the world of mobile phones .
in some of the following expeditions , i &apos;ve seen creatures in thermal sources , and sometimes things that i &apos;ve never seen before , sometimes things that no one had ever seen before , and the science at the time when we saw them , had no words at all .
so that got me right around , and i wanted more .
and so i made a little bit of an unusual decision .
after the success of titanic , i said , &quot; okay , i want to put my main job as a filmmaker in hollywood and i &apos;m going to be a full-time researcher for a while . &quot;
and then we started , we dived to the bismarck , and we looked at them with robotics .
we went back to the titanic wreck .
we took little robots that we built that had a fiberglass cable wrapped up .
our intention was to dive in and look at the inside of the ship , which had never been done before .
no one had ever explored the inside of the wreck , and you didn &apos;t have any means for it , so we developed the technology that we needed .
now , i &apos;m sitting on the deck of the titanic , in a dive boat , and i &apos;m planning to look very similar to these brakes , and i know that once the band has played there , the band has played .
these are the mobile phones of the future .
and i fly with a little robot experience through the halls of the ship .
i &apos;m actually just praying it , but my consciousness is within the vehicle .
it felt like i was physically in the shipping wreck of the titanic .
this was the most surreal form of a déji vu that i &apos;ve ever experienced , because before i drilled around a corner each time , i always knew what was going to happen in the light cone of the vehicle , because i &apos;d run over the film for months when we made the film .
because the set was an accurate copy of the design plans of the ship .
so that was a very strange experience .
it made me realize this telepresence experience that you can use such robotic avatars and put your consciousness into the vehicle , into this other form of existence .
it was really profound .
and maybe a little bit of a look at what might happen in a few decades , if you have cyborg bodies to explore or to do other things , in all sorts of post-humane future scenarios that i can think of as a science fiction fan .
after these expeditions , we started to really appreciate what we had seen down there , for example , these deep sea sources , where we saw these incredibly amazing animals , and these are sort of aliens , but here on earth .
my favorite is the one in the middle -- mp3 playwright , nasal hair trimmer and crème brée fackel .
they live with chemosynthesis .
they don &apos;t exist in a sunlight system , like we do .
and so you see animals that are right next to 500 degrees celsius , that they can survive there .
at the same time , i was also very interested in space science , which was again the science fiction influence of my childhood .
and so i ended up with the people who are interested in space and who have to do with nasa , and who are in the nasa expertise council , and they &apos;re planning real space missions , and they &apos;re going to russia , and they &apos;re going through the mission of biomedical protocol , and they &apos;re going through it , and they &apos;re going to fly to the international space station , and they &apos;re going to take our 3d camera systems .
that was fascinating .
but at the end of the day , i took space scientists to the deep sea with us .
i took them , and i gave them access to the world down there : astrobiologists , planetary scientists , people who were interested in such extreme situations , and i took them to the sources so they could look around , sample and test instruments and so on .
we did documentary films , but actually did science , in particular , space science .
so the circle between my existence was a science fiction fan , then as a child , and the translation into reality .
and if you haven &apos;t seen that in your business so far , you can be sure you &apos;re going to be .
in the course of this journey of discovery , i learned a lot .
i &apos;ve learned a lot about science , but i &apos;m sure you think a director has to be able to lead , be a leader like a ship captain or something .
but i didn &apos;t understand a lot of leadership before i entered these expeditions .
because at a certain point , i had to say to myself , &quot; what am i doing here ?
why do i do that ? what comes out of it ? &quot;
these stupid movies don &apos;t bring us money .
we &apos;re going to play the cost of production . no trace of fame .
everybody thinks i &apos;d run away from &quot; titanic &quot; and &quot; avatar , &quot; and somewhere would have celebrated my nails on a towel on a beach .
i made all these films , these documentaries , for a very small audience .
no fame , no honor , no money . what are you doing ?
and what it does is it makes people walk into business and ask that question .
you do it for the sake of the task , for the sake of the challenge -- and the ocean is the most challenging environment that we have . you do it for the discovery , and for the strange connection that comes when a small group of people form a team .
because we &apos;ve done all this with just 10 to 12 people who have worked uninterrupted for years , and sometimes we &apos;ve been to sea for two to three months in a row .
and in this community , you realize that the most important thing is the awe that you have in front of each other , because you &apos;ve done a job that you can &apos;t explain to anyone else .
when you go back to land and you say , &quot; we had to do it , the fiberglass , the sound , and all the way around , all the technology , and all the difficulty , the human performance , if you work on lake , &quot; you can &apos;t explain the other one . it &apos;s like police officers , or soldiers , who have done something together and know that they can never explain it .
there is a connection , a respect to each other .
so when i came back to make my next film , &quot; avatar , &quot; i was trying to apply the same leadership style , which is that you respect your team and you deserve the opposite respect of it .
it really changed the dynamics .
so i stood back with a small team on unknown terrain , and we turned &quot; avatar &quot; with a new technology that didn &apos;t exist before .
incredibly exciting .
a tremendous challenge .
do you know what the answer to this question is ?
and we became a right family for a four-and-a-half year period .
so my way of making films changed completely .
there were people who thought we &apos;d actually done a really good job of doing these oceans and transporting them to the planet pandora .
for me , it was more of a principle of doing my job , the actual process that changed as a result .
so what can we conclude from all this ?
what lessons did we learn ?
i think the first one is curiosity .
it &apos;s the most powerful human property .
our imagination is a force that can actually create a reality .
and the idea of your team is more important than any lorbeer in the world .
the answer is no .
i come to me with young filmmakers who say , &quot; give me a advice on how to do this . &quot;
and i say , &quot; don &apos;t constrain yourself .
that &apos;s what others get for you . don &apos;t do it to yourself , don &apos;t bet on yourself , but take risks on you . &quot;
nasa has such a favorite sentence : &quot; failure is not an alternative . &quot;
but in art and in exploring , failure has to be an alternative , because there is a guarantee of trust .
no important endeavor that innovation demanded was ever dealt with no risk .
you have to be willing to take those risks .
that &apos;s the idea that i &apos;d like to leave you with . failure is an alternative , but fear is not . thank you .
today i &apos;m talking to you about energy and climate .
and this may be a little bit surprising , because my full-time job at the foundation is mostly about vaccines and seeds to make the things that we need to invent and deliver to make the poorest two billion a better life .
it &apos;s not possible to buy a mobile phone that doesn &apos;t do too much .
but energy and climate are extremely important for these people , in fact , more important than anyone on the planet .
climate deterioration means that their juries are not going to grow over many years ; we &apos;re going to grow too much or too little rain ; things are going to change the way their fragile environment can &apos;t sustain .
this leads to starvation . it leads to uncertainty . it leads to riots .
so , climate change is going to be terrible for you .
also , the energy cycle for them is very important .
in fact , if you could only reduce the price from one thing , to reduce poverty would be far the most effective .
well , the energy cycle has fallen over time .
in fact , the progress society is based on energy advances .
coal evolution pushed the industrial revolution , and even in the 20th century , there was a rapid case in the electricity cycle , and so we have refrigerators , air conditioners , we can make modern materials , and so many things do .
so we &apos;re in a wonderful situation of electricity in the rich world .
and yet , this horrible destiny actually happens to someone on earth , about every two weeks , because every two weeks , an elderly person dies and takes the last syllable of an old language into the grave .
in other aspects of life that are much more significant than buying objects , the same explosion of choice is true .
but if we reduce the price -- let &apos;s halve the price -- we hit a new barrier , and that barrier is related to co2 .
co2 warms up the planet , and co2 equation is actually pretty clear .
they &apos;re summarizing the out-of-the-box co2 , which leads to the temperature increase , and that temperature increase has some very negative consequences . effects on the weather , and perhaps worse , the indirect result that the natural ecosystems can &apos;t adapt to such rapid changes , and so whole systems collapse .
now , the exact relationship between a co2 rise and the resulting temperature change , and where the other implications are , there are some uncertainties , but not very many .
and there &apos;s certainly ambiguity about how bad these consequences are going to be , but they &apos;re going to be extremely bad .
i asked the top scientists several times , &quot; do we really have to get down to near zero ?
doesn &apos;t half or a quarter ? &quot;
the answer is , until we get close to zero , the temperature is going to go up .
so it &apos;s a big challenge .
it &apos;s very different from saying we have a 3.5 foot truck that has to be under a three-foot bridge , and then you can kind of squeeze it underneath it .
health care -- it &apos;s no longer the case in the united states that you go to the doctor , and the doctor tells you what to do .
this one has to go all the way down , to zero .
well , we &apos;re releasing a lot of carbon dioxide every year , over 26 billion tons .
every american is about 20 tons . people from poor countries , less than one .
on average , it &apos;s about five tons for everyone on the planet .
and somehow we need to create changes that are going to go down to zero .
it &apos;s been constant .
only different economic changes have affected it at all , and we need to go from rapid increase to reducing and reducing to zero .
this equation has four factors . a little bit multiplication . you have this thing on the left -- co2 that you want to get towards zero , and that will depend on the number of people , on the services that every human being uses on average , on average , on average , on every service and on the co2 that &apos;s emitted per unit of energy .
so let &apos;s look at each factor , and think about how we get that to zero .
probably one of these numbers has to get very close to zero .
instead , you go to the doctor , and the doctor tells you , we could do a or we could do b .
now this is basic algebra , but let &apos;s go through it .
first , we have the population .
today , 6.8 billion people live .
and it &apos;s moving towards nine billion . it &apos;s moving to nine billion .
if we &apos;re very successful with new vaccines , health care and reproduction medicine , we might be able to reduce that by 10 to 15 percent , but at the moment we see a slope by 1.3 .
the second factor is the services that we use .
that includes everything , the food that we eat , clothing , television , heating .
these are very good things and poverty reduction means making these services accessible to almost everybody on the planet .
it &apos;s great that this number is rising .
in the rich world , in the upper billion , we might be able to dispute and use less , but on average , this number is going to increase every year , and so in total , more than double-double , the number of services that are provided per person .
a has these benefits and risks .
here we see a very basic service . is there light at home so that you can read the homework ?
and these students don &apos;t have it , so they go out and read their school assignments under the street light .
well , in efficiency , the e , the energy per service , there &apos;s finally good news .
we have something that doesn &apos;t go up .
because of various successes in the light sector , through other types of errors , through new methods in building , there are many services , their energy intensity to some individual services are reduced by 90 percent .
in other services , like making fertilizers , 105 : 05 : 56,000 -- &amp; lt ; 00 : 05 : 58,000 or air transport or air traffic , the playroom is much smaller for improvement .
in total , if we &apos;re optimistic , we might get a reduction by a factor three or maybe even by a factor six .
but in the first three factors , we &apos;ve gone from 26 billion to maybe the very best 13 billion tons , and that &apos;s just not enough .
so let &apos;s look at the fourth factor -- and this will be a key factor -- that &apos;s the amount of co2 that &apos;s emitted per unit of energy .
it &apos;s the question of if you can get that to zero .
b has these benefits and risks . what do you want to do ?
if you burn coal , no .
if you burn natural gas , no .
almost every manufacturing method for electricity today emitts co2 , except for renewables and nuclear energy .
so what we need to do at a global level is to create a new system .
we need energy miracles .
now , when i use the term &quot; miracle , &quot; i don &apos;t mean the impossible .
the microprocessor is a miracle . the computer is a miracle .
the internet and service is a miracle .
people here have contributed to the development of many of these miracles .
usually there &apos;s no deadline that you need a miracle to a certain date .
and they say , &quot; doctor , what do i do ? &quot;
you &apos;re usually just going to be wrong , and some people are going to come , some are not .
but in this case , we have to give full gas and get a miracle in very short time .
now , i wondered , how can i really get this over ?
is there a natural illustration , a demonstration that sparks the idea of people here ?
i remembered last year when i brought mosquitos , and somehow people liked that .
the idea became really tangible to them , you know , there are people living with mosquitos .
for energy , this is what i came up with .
i decided that the release of fireflies would be here for my year &apos;s contribution to the environment .
so here are some natural fireflies .
i was told that they &apos;re not going to bite . in fact , they &apos;re not even going to leave the glass .
the doctor says , a has these benefits and risks and b has these benefits and those risks .
well , there are all kinds of play solutions like this , but they don &apos;t do much .
we need solutions , either one or several , that have an unthinkable scaling and unimaginable reliability , and even though there are many directions that people are looking for it , i see only five that can afford these big demands .
i &apos;ve left out tides , geothermal , fusion and biofuels .
maybe they do a modern contribution , and if they do better than i expect , that would be great , but my core statement here is that we have to work on all those five , and we can &apos;t give up any of them because they &apos;re shy to us , because they all have significant problems .
let &apos;s first look at burning fossil fuels , burning either coal or natural gas .
what you have to do there may seem simple , but it &apos;s not . you have to capture all the co2 that comes out of the chimneys after the burning of the chimneys , and you have to put it under pressure , and then you get it somewhere , and you hope it &apos;s there .
there are some piloting projects that can do this at a 60 percent level -- 80 percent level , but get it to 100 percent , it &apos;s going to be very difficult , and to get an agreement on the scale of co2 , is a big challenge . but the biggest problem here is the waretime question .
who &apos;s going to make sure ?
who can guarantee something that literally billions of times bigger than any kind of garbage that you can imagine of nuclear and other things ?
that &apos;s a lot of volume .
what do you want to do ?
so this is a tough nose .
next , nuclear energy .
it also has three big problems . the cost , especially in highly regulated countries , is high . the question of security is that you really feel that nothing can go wrong , despite the human participation , that the fuel is not used for weapons .
and then what do you do with the waste ?
because even though it &apos;s not very big , there &apos;s a lot of concern .
so three very difficult problems that might be soluble , and that &apos;s why you should work .
i &apos;ve summarized the last three of the five .
it &apos;s renewables , as they &apos;re often called .
and they also have -- although it &apos;s great that they don &apos;t need fuel -- they have some disadvantages .
one , the energy density that these technologies create is dramatically lower than power plants .
and if you said , &quot; if you were me , doctor , what would you do ? &quot;
these are energy farms , and you talk about many square kilometers , a thousand times more area than a normal power plant .
also , these sources are underlying interruptions .
the sun doesn &apos;t shine all day , it doesn &apos;t shine every day , and it doesn &apos;t always run the wind .
so if you &apos;re dependent on these sources , you have to have a way to get the energy in time when it &apos;s not available .
so there are big prices here . there are challenges in transmission , for example , when we say that the energy source is outside the country , not only do you need the technology , but you also need to deal with the risk that the energy comes from where else .
and there &apos;s the problem of storage .
and to show the dimension , i &apos;ve looked at all sorts of batteries that are made : the ones for cars , computers , cell phones , flashlights , for everything , and that &apos;s what i &apos;ve done with the amount of electronic energy that the world uses , and i &apos;ve found that all the batteries that we &apos;re producing now could store less than 10 minutes of total energy .
so we need a big breakthrough here , something that &apos;s going to be a factor of 100 better than the approaches at the moment .
it &apos;s not impossible , but it &apos;s not that easy .
this is what happens when you try to get these interrupted sources over 20 percent -- 30 percent of the use .
the doctor says , &quot; but i &apos;m not you . &quot;
if you want to support it by 100 percent , you need an incredible miracle battery .
now , where should we go : what &apos;s the right approach ?
a manhattan project ? how do we get there ?
what we need is a lot of companies working on this . hundreds .
in each of these five areas , we need at least 100 people .
many of you will say , they &apos;re crazy ! that &apos;s good .
i think there are a lot of people here in the ted group who are already engaged in this .
bill gross has several companies , including one called esolar , which has great solar thermal technologies .
vinod khosla is investing in dozens of companies doing great things and having interesting opportunities , and i &apos;m trying to support that .
nathan myhrvold and i are funding a company that , perhaps surprisingly , follows the nuclear approach .
and i know some of you say , &quot; isn &apos;t it better ? &quot; would the world not be a better place if we all were to speak a language ? &quot; and i say , &quot; well , let this language be yoruba . let it be cantonic .
the result is -- we call it &quot; patient autonomy . &quot; it sounds like a good thing , but in reality , a shift in the burden of responsibility for making decisions from someone who knows something -- namely , the doctor -- to someone who knows nothing and is most likely to be sick and therefore not in the best constitution is to make a decision -- namely , the patient .
there are some innovations in the nuclear area ; modular , liquid .
the development has stopped in this industry some time ago , so it &apos;s not a big surprise that some good concepts are lying around .
the terrapower-concept means that instead of a part of the uranium , the one percent , the u235 , we decided to burn the 99 percent , the u238 .
this is a pretty crazy idea .
but in fact , you &apos;d been thinking about it for a long time , but you could never reasonably simulate whether it would work , but since there &apos;s modern supercomputers , you can simulate it and see that , yes , with the right materialization , it looks like it works .
and because you burn this 99 percent , it &apos;s much better for cost profile .
in fact , you burn the garbage , and you can even use the waste of today &apos;s reactors as a fuel fuel .
instead of breaking your head , you just burn it . it &apos;s a great thing .
the uranium is gradually used , a little bit like a candle .
you can see that it &apos;s a kind of pillar , often called a &quot; walking wave of reactor . &quot;
there &apos;s an enormous marketing for prescription drugs for people like you and me , which , if you think about it , doesn &apos;t make any sense at all , because we don &apos;t buy it .
that really solves the fuel problem .
here &apos;s a picture of a place in kentucky .
this is the waste , the 99 percent . you have the part that &apos;s burned today , so it &apos;s called the uranium that &apos;s used .
this is what drives the u.s. for hundreds of years .
and if you make ocean water cheap and easy to film , you get enough fuel for the rest of the planet &apos;s life .
you know , there are many challenges , but it &apos;s an example of many hundreds of concepts that we need to move forward .
let &apos;s think about how we should measure our success .
what should our testimony look like ?
well , let &apos;s go to the destination that we need to reach , and then we talk about the intermediate step .
many people talk about an 80 percent reduction by 2050 .
why are they advertising around us if we can &apos;t buy ?
it &apos;s really , really important that we get there .
the rest of the 20 percent will be produced in poor countries , and still some agriculture , and hopefully whale threat and cement will be clean until then .
so to reach these 80 percent , the industrial states , including countries like china , have to completely reorder their electricity generation .
the other note is whether we use the zero-emission technology , whether it &apos;s used in all developed countries , and we &apos;re on the way to get it to the rest .
this is terribly important .
this is going to be a key element of this testimony .
if we go back from there , what would that look like in 2020 ?
it should again contain the two elements .
we should use the effects of effectiveness to get reduction in the way , and the less we emitt , the less the carbon sum is going to be and the temperature is going to be .
but in fact , this note for the things that we do that don &apos;t lead to the big reductions , just the same , or even less important , as the others that are the speed of innovation for these breakthroughs .
the answer is , they expect us to call the doctor the next morning and ask for a change in the prescription .
we have to track these breakthroughs with complete gas , and we can measure that in corporate numbers , in pilot projects and regulation changes .
there are a lot of great books on this topic .
the al gore book , &quot; we have the choice , &quot; and david mckays &apos;s &quot; sustainable energy without the hot air . &quot;
they really go through it and create a framework in which this can be discussed wide , because we need support from all sides .
there are some things that need to come together .
this is a wish .
a very concrete wish that we invent this technology .
if you just gave me a wish for the next 50 years , i could choose the president , a vaccine , and i love that , or i could choose that wish , which is , half the energy cycle without co2 , i would take that wish .
this one has the biggest impact .
if we don &apos;t get that wish , the digging between the long term and the short-term thinking people will be terrible between the united states and china , between the poor and the rich , and almost all of those two billion lives will be much worse .
something as profound as our identity is now a question of choice , as to show this slide .
so what do we need to do ?
what are the measures that i use ?
we need to work on more research .
when countries come together in places like coppenhagen , they shouldn &apos;t just talk about co2 .
you should discuss this innovation strategy , and you would be shocked by the ridiculous money spent on these innovative approaches .
we need market prices , co2 taxes , cap &amp; amp ; trade something that creates a price signal .
we need to spread the message .
we need to have dialogue more rationally and more fully , and also the things that are done by the government .
it &apos;s an important wish , but i think we can fulfill it .
thank you .
we don &apos;t inherit identity ; we invent it .
thank you .
thank you . thank you .
thank you very much . just to understand terrapower a little bit better -- first of all , can you give us an idea of the scale of this investment ?
bill gates : to do the simulation on a supercomputer , to get all the big scientists , what we &apos;ve done , we just need a few 10 million . and even if we &apos;ve tested our materials in a russian reactor to make sure it works reasonably , you &apos;re only in the 100th million .
the hard step is to build the first reactor , to find more billions , the regularias and the place that actually builds the first of them .
once the first is done , when it &apos;s done , as i promised you , it &apos;s all clear , because the economy , the energy density , is so different from nuclear , as we know it .
in order to understand this : building deep in the ground is almost like a vertical column of nuclear fuel , this use of uranium , and then the process starts up and continues to work down ?
bg : exactly . now you have to refill the reactor , so there are a lot of people and a lot of controls that can go wrong . this thing where you open it up and put things in -- or out . it &apos;s not good !
but if you have very cheap fuel , you can fill it for 60 years -- think of a column -- that you buried without all the complexity .
and it &apos;s sitting there and it &apos;s burning for 60 years , and then it &apos;s finished .
and we are as often reinventing ourselves as we want .
a nuclear reactor that provides a solution to the trash itself .
bg : yeah . now , what happens to the garbage : you can let it sit -- there &apos;s much less waste with this method -- then you take it and you put it in the next reactor and you burn it .
and we start by taking the garbage that already exists , which is in these refrigerators or dry containers in the reactors . that &apos;s our starting fuel .
so what was a problem for these reactors is what we fill in our fills , and it dramatically reduces the volume of waste in this process .
but as you &apos;ve talked to different people in the world about these possibilities .
where is the biggest interest in actually doing this ?
bg : well , we haven &apos;t yet set up a place , and there &apos;s a lot of interesting openings for everything called the &quot; nuclear . &quot; there &apos;s a lot of interest , and the people of the company were in russia , india , china -- i was here , and i met the energy minister , and i talked about how this fits the energy agenda .
i &apos;m optimistic . you know , the french and the japanese have done something in the direction .
this is a variation of one thing that was done .
this is an important step forward , but it &apos;s like a faster reactor , and some countries have built it , so anyone who has implemented a fast reactor is a candidate for our first .
that means that every day , when you wake up in the morning , you have to decide what kind of person you want to be .
in your mind , time frame and probability are really going to create something like this ?
bg : well , we need one of these scalable , power-generating things that &apos;s very cheap , we have 20 years to invent , and then we have 20 years to use .
this is sort of the deadline that showed us the environmental models that we need to stop .
and , you know , terrapower , if everything goes well , and that &apos;s a big wish , could keep it easy .
and luckily , there are dozens of companies today , and we need hundreds that , just as their approaches work , can provide the promotion for their pilots .
and it would be best if you could do it , because then you could use a mixture .
anyway , we need a solution .
the great breakthroughs , is this the biggest thing you know ?
bg : an energy breakthrough is the most important .
it would have been without the environmental requirement , but it makes it so much more important .
in terms of marriage and family , there was a time when the standard assumption was that almost everybody had one , and they married as fast as they could , and then they had children as quickly as they could .
in the nuclear sector , there are other innovative companies .
you know , we don &apos;t know their work as well as this , but there &apos;s the modular method , which is a different approach .
there &apos;s a liquid reactor type that seems a little bit difficult , but they might say that about us .
and so there are different , but the nice thing about this is that a uranium molecule has a million times as much energy as a , say , a coal molecule , and therefore , if you can deal with the problems , and they &apos;re mostly the radiation , the footprint and the cost , the potential , so the impact on the land and other things , almost in your own league .
if that doesn &apos;t work , then what ?
do we have to take emergency measures to try to keep the temperature stable ?
bg : when you get into this situation , it &apos;s as if you ate too much , and you &apos;re standing in front of a heart attack , and then what do you do ? you might need a heart surgery or something .
there &apos;s a research that &apos;s called geoengineering , which is about different techniques to delay global warming , so that we could get 20 or 30 years longer to go together .
this is just an insurance method .
you hope we don &apos;t need that .
the only real choice was &quot; who , &quot; not when , and not what they did after that .
some people say you &apos;re not supposed to work on insurance first , because it might make you lazy , so you &apos;re going to keep eating , because you know you &apos;re going to save your heart surgery .
i don &apos;t know if that &apos;s smart , if you take the importance of this problem in front of you , but there &apos;s a discourse in geoengineering about whether you should have this , if things come faster , or that innovation takes longer than we expect .
climakeptics : do you have one or two sentences for those to convince you maybe ?
bg : well , unfortunately , the skeptics live in very different camps .
those who make scientific arguments are very little .
do you say that there are negative effects that have to do with the clouds that move things ?
there are very , very few things that you can even say , of which there is a chance in a million .
the main problem here is kind of like aids .
you make the mistake now , and you pay a lot later .
and so the idea is , now , if you have all sorts of urgent problems to invest in something that you only have later -- and that &apos;s where the investment is not so clear . in fact , the ipcc report is not necessarily the worst scenario , and there are people in the rich world who are looking at ipcc and saying , okay , that &apos;s not a big drama .
let &apos;s be michael . &quot;
today , everything is easy to have .
the fact is that this uncertainty should worry about us .
but my dream here is that if you can do it economically , and at the same time remove the co2 , the skeptics say , &quot; okay , i &apos;m not interested that it doesn &apos;t emitt co2 , i almost wish it did , but i &apos;m going to accept it because it &apos;s cheaper than the previous method . &quot;
and that would be their answer to the björn lomborg &apos;s argument that if you use all this time and energy to solve the co2 problem , all the other goals suffer , the poverty reduction , the malaria reduction , and so on , that it &apos;s a stupid waste of resources to invest money while there are better things we can do .
bg : well , the actual spending on research -- let &apos;s say the u.s. should spend 10 billion a year more than you do today -- that &apos;s not so dramatic .
it shouldn &apos;t suffer other things .
you come to big sums of money , and here you can disagree with reasonable people , if you have something that &apos;s not economic , and it &apos;s trying to fund it , and for me , most of the waste is going to happen .
except , you &apos;re very short before a cost-breakthrough , and you &apos;re just funding the learning curve , and i think we should try to do more things that have the potential to be much cheaper .
if the debris you get is a very high energy cycle , then only the rich can keep up .
i mean , every one of us here could spend five times as much on our energy without changing its lifestyle .
for the bottom two billion , it &apos;s a disaster .
i teach them wonderful intelligent students , and i give them 20 percent less work than i used to do .
and even lomborg thinks about it .
his new bottle is now , &quot; why is it not going to talk about research ? &quot;
he &apos;s still , because of his former stories , associated with the skeptic camp , but he understood that this is a very lonely group , and so he &apos;s now making the research argument .
and this is a thought that i think is appropriate .
research , it &apos;s just crazy how little it &apos;s being supported .
bill , i think i &apos;m talking for almost all people here when i say , i really hope that your wish will come true . thank you very much .
bg : thank you .
a few years ago , here at ted , peter skillman introduced a design competition called &quot; the marshmallow challenge . &quot;
the idea is pretty simple . four teams have to build the largest possible free-standing structure with 20 spaghetti , about a foot tape , about a foot tape , and a marshmallow .
the marshmallow has to be on top .
and that &apos;s not because they &apos;re less smart , not because they &apos;re less careful .
and , although it seems really simple , it &apos;s actually really hard , because it urges people to work together very quickly .
and so i thought this was an interesting idea , and i turned it into a design workshop .
it was a huge success .
since then , i &apos;ve done about 70 workshops around the world , with students , developers and architects , even with ctos of fortune 50 companies , and there &apos;s something about this task that allows deep insights into the nature of collaboration , and i want to share some of them with you .
usually , most people start to orient themselves to the task .
they &apos;re talking about it , they &apos;re thinking about what it &apos;s going to look like , they &apos;re running around power .
then they invest a little bit of time in planning and organization . they sketch and they put out spaghetti .
they &apos;re investing a lot of their time in the construction of the growing structures .
and finally , just before you have time , someone takes the marshmallow and they hugely put it on the top , step back and &quot; ta-da &quot; -- admire your work .
but then what happens , almost always , is that the ta-da becomes a &quot; uh oh , &quot; because the weight of the marshmallow causes the whole thing to bend and fall down .
it &apos;s because they &apos;re engaged in other things , they ask themselves , &quot; should i marry or not ? should i marry now ?
there are a number of people who have much more &quot; uh-oh &quot; moments than others , and among the worst are fresh bwl graduates .
they lie , they cheat , they &apos;re confused and they &apos;re really producing droughts .
and of course , there are teams that have much more ta-da , and among the best are fresh graduates of kindergarten .
and that &apos;s pretty amazing .
as peter told us , they produce not just the highest towers , but also the most interesting structures of all .
what you might ask is , how does this happen ? why ? what about those ?
and peter says , &quot; none of the kids spend time being the head of the spaghetti gmbh . &quot;
they don &apos;t spend time in power fights .
but there &apos;s another reason .
and that is that bwl students were trained to find the right plan , ok !
should i get married later ? should i have children first , or should i have a career ? &quot;
and then realizing it .
what happens when you put the marshmallow on the top , you don &apos;t have time , and what happens ?
it &apos;s a crisis .
sounds familiar , what ?
what kindergarten kids are doing is they &apos;re starting with the marshmallow and building prototypes , successful prototypes , always with the marshmallow at the top , so that they have the ability to repair badly prototypes .
constructors recognize this kind of collaboration as the core of an iterative process .
and with each trial , the kids get immediate feedback about what works and what doesn &apos;t .
so the performance of working with prototypes is essential -- but let &apos;s see how different teams work .
the average for most of them is about 50 inches , bwl students are creating half of them , lawyers are a little bit more , but not much , kindergarten kids are better than adults .
who is most successful ?
they &apos;re all interrogating questions .
architects and engineers , fortunately .
one foot is the highest thing i &apos;ve seen .
and why ? because they understand triangles and self-reinforcing geometric patterns are the key to building stable structures .
ceos are a little bit about average . but this is where it gets interesting .
if you put an executive administrator on the team , they become significantly better .
it &apos;s incredible . you look around and you see , &quot; this team will win . &quot;
you can predict that . why is that ?
because they have special skills of processing companions .
they lead the process , they understand it .
and that team that &apos;s regulating and paying attention to the work is significantly improving the performance of the team .
and you &apos;re going to answer these questions regardless of whether that means doing all the tasks that i &apos;m going to give you and not get a good note in my course .
specialized skills and processing skills and their combination lead to success .
if you have 10 teams that are typical , you get about six of them that have stable structures .
i was trying a little bit more exciting .
i thought , let &apos;s bring the poker .
so i offered a $ 10,000 price of software for the winners .
what do you think happened to these design students ?
what was the result ?
this is what happened . not a team had a stable structure .
if anyone had built a two-inch construction , they would have wore the price home .
so isn &apos;t it interesting that high competition has a strong effect ?
and in fact , you should do that . these are important to answer questions .
we repeated this exercise with the same student .
now , what do you think happened ?
now they understood the advantage of the prototyping .
so it became the same , bad team of one under the best .
they produced the highest construction in the least time .
so there are profound lessons for us , about the nature of drive and success .
you might ask : why would somebody actually invest time creating a marshmallow challenge ?
the reason is , i &apos;m helping digital tools and processes to help teams create cars , video games and visual effects .
and what the marshmallow challenge does is it helps you identify hidden assumptions .
because frankly , every project has its own marshmallow .
work -- we &apos;re blessed , as carl has illustrated , with the technology that allows us to work every minute of every place on the planet -- except for the randolph hotel .
the challenge provides a shared experience , a common language , or a common sense of building the right prototype .
and this is the value of this experience , this simple exercise .
and those of you who are interested can visit marshmallowchallenge.com .
it &apos;s a blog where you see how to build the marshmallows .
there &apos;s a step-by-step manual there .
you find crazy examples from all over the world , how people optimize and refine the system .
there are also world records .
and the fundamental lesson , i think , is that construction is actually a commitment sport .
it demands that we all put our senses on the task , and that we use our thinking optimally , like our feelings and our actions , in the challenge that we face .
and sometimes a small prototype of this experience is all it takes to take us from a &quot; uh oh &quot; -- to a &quot; ta-da &quot; moment .
there &apos;s a corner , by the way , that i &apos;m not going to tell you about , that the wireless plan works on .
and that can make a big difference .
thank you .
let &apos;s pretend that we have a machine here .
a big machine , a cool , ted machine , and this is a time machine .
and everyone in this room has to go in .
and you can go to the past , you can go to the future ; you can &apos;t stay in here and now .
and i wonder what you would choose , because i &apos;ve often asked my friends this question recently , and they all wanted to go to the past .
i don &apos;t know . they wanted to go back to the time before there were cars or twitter or &quot; america is looking for the superstar . &quot;
i don &apos;t know .
i believe that somehow you &apos;ve moved to nostalgia , to wonder .
and then you would suddenly realize what it would be like if you couldn &apos;t speak your own language .
i won &apos;t tell you because i want to use it .
and i understand that .
i &apos;m not part of this group , i have to say .
i don &apos;t want to go into the past , and i don &apos;t want to , because i &apos;m an adventurer .
it &apos;s because possibilities on this planet are not going back , they &apos;re going forward .
so i want to go into this machine , and i want to go into the future .
this is the greatest time you &apos;ve ever had on the planet , no matter what scale you &apos;re making : health , wealth , mobility , opportunities , declining disease rates .
there &apos;s never been a time like this before .
my great-grandparents all died when they were 60 .
my grandparents pushed this number to 70 .
my parents are the 80 on the heels .
so what it means is that this incredible freedom of choice we have in terms of making decisions about work , over and over again , whether we should work or not work .
so there should be a nine at the beginning of my death .
but it &apos;s not even about people like us , because this is a bigger thing than that .
a child born today in new delhi can expect to live as long as the richest man in the world 100 years ago .
think about it . that &apos;s an incredible fact .
and why is that ?
the smallpox . the smallpox killed billions of people on this planet .
they &apos;ve reformed the demographics of the earth in a way that no war has ever done .
they &apos;re gone . they &apos;re gone .
we forced them . puff .
in the rich world , there are diseases that have threatened millions of us only one generation , hardly yet .
we can watch our kids play football , and we have our cell phone on one hip , and our blackberry on other hips , and probably our laptop on our lap .
diphtery , roman , child paralysis ...
does anybody know what that is ?
vaccines , modern medicine , our ability to feed billions of people , these are the successes of the scientific method .
and in my view , the scientific method of trying to do things is to see if it works , change it , if it doesn &apos;t , one of the greatest achievements in humanity .
so that &apos;s the good news .
unfortunately , it &apos;s all the good news , because there are a few other problems , and they &apos;ve been mentioned a lot .
and one of them is that , despite all of our achievements , one billion people in the world go to bed hungry every day .
that number goes up very quickly , and it goes up very quickly , and that &apos;s embarrassing .
and not only that , we &apos;ve used our imagination to devastate this world .
drinking water , ancient land , rainforests , oil , gas : they disappear , soon , and if we don &apos;t get out of this chaos , we will also disappear .
and even if you &apos;re all turned off , every minute we watch our child mutilate a football game , we also ask ourselves , &quot; should i take this call ?
so the question is , can we do that ? i think we can .
i think it &apos;s clear that we can produce food that will feed billions of people without raping the land that they live on .
i think we can power this world that doesn &apos;t destroy it at the same time .
i really believe that , and no , that &apos;s not a wonder thinking .
but this is what keeps me awake at night -- one of the things that keeps me awake at night , and we &apos;ve never needed scientific progress as much as now , never .
and we &apos;ve never been able to use it reasonably , as we can today .
we &apos;re on the verge of amazing , amazing events in many areas , and yet i really think that we need to go back hundreds , 300 years before the enlightenment to find a time when we &apos;ve fought progress , where we &apos;ve driven over these things more intensely , to more fronts than now .
people are shredding themselves in their faith , so tightly that you can &apos;t free them .
not even the truth will liberate it .
and listen , everybody has a right to their opinion , even a right to progress .
should i answer this email ? should i write this letter ? &quot;
but you know what you &apos;re not right about ?
they have no right to their own facts . &apos; sorry , they don &apos;t .
and it took me a while to figure that out .
about a decade ago , i wrote an article about vaccinations for &quot; the new yorker , &quot; a little article .
and i was amazed to come across resistance , to resistance to what is at the end of the most effective practice in health care in human history .
i didn &apos;t know what to do , so i just did what i always do , i wrote an article , and i went on .
and soon after that , i wrote an article about genetically engineered food .
the same thing , only bigger .
people were playing crazy .
so i also wrote an article about this , and i couldn &apos;t understand why people thought that was &quot; frankenfood , &quot; why they thought that molecules were in a certain way , rather than a random way , to move around a way of translating into nature .
and even though the answer to the question &quot; no , &quot; it will certainly be very different from the experience of your child &apos;s football game .
but you know , i do what i do . i wrote the article , i went on .
i mean , i &apos;m a journalist .
we type , we rich , we go to food , that &apos;s okay .
but i was worried about these articles , and i couldn &apos;t figure out why , and finally i found out .
and that &apos;s because these fanatics that made me crazy were not fanatics at all .
these were thoughtful people , educated people , decent people .
they were just like the people in this room .
and that got me so confused ...
but then i thought , you know what , let &apos;s be honest .
we &apos;re at a point where we don &apos;t have the same relationship to progress as we used to .
everywhere we look , big things and small things , material things and lifestyle , life is a question of choice .
we &apos;re talking about the twin .
we &apos;re talking ironically about it , with little signs of leadership , &quot; progress . &quot;
okay , there are reasons for that , and i think we know what the reasons are .
we have lost trust in institutions , in authority , and sometimes in science itself , and there &apos;s no reason why it shouldn &apos;t be .
you can just call some names and people will understand .
chernobyl , bhopal , the challengers , vioxx , weapons of mass destruction , the u.s. presidential election in 2000 .
i mean , you know , you can choose your own list .
there are questions and problems with the people we thought they were always right , so be skeptical .
ask questions , demand evidence , demand evidence .
take nothing for granted .
and the world that we lived in looked like this .
but here &apos;s the thing : if you get the evidence , you have to accept this evidence , and we &apos;re not good at it .
and i can say that , for the reason , that we are now living in an epidemic of fear , as i &apos;ve never seen it , and hopefully never seen again .
about 12 years ago , a story was published , a terrible story that connected the autism epidemic to the masers , mumps , and roman vaccine .
very frightening .
hence studies were done to see if that was true .
well , studies should be done ; that &apos;s a serious issue .
the data came in .
the data came in from the united states , from england , from sweden , from canada , and they were all the same , no correlation , no connection , no connection .
it doesn &apos;t make any difference . it doesn &apos;t make any difference because we believe in anecdotes , we think what we see , what we think we see , what makes us feel real .
we don &apos;t believe in a bundle of documents from a government official who gives us data , and i understand that , i think we all do that .
i mean , there were some choices , but not everything was a question of choice .
but you know what ?
the result of that was catastrophic .
catastrophic , because of this fact , the united states is one of the only countries in the world where the vaccinators for masers are falling .
this is scandalous , and we should be ashamed .
it &apos;s terrible .
what happened was that we could do that .
well , i understand that . that &apos;s what i do .
because does anybody have masers here ?
has a single person in the audience ever seen anyone die of masers ?
doesn &apos;t happen very often .
and the world that we live in now looks like this .
doesn &apos;t happen at all in this country , but 160,000 times in the world last year .
that &apos;s a lot of deaths from masers , 20 per hour .
but because that hasn &apos;t happened here , we can displace it , and people like jenny mccarthy can walk around and preach messages of fear and illiteracy of platforms like oprah and larry king live .
and they can do that because they don &apos;t connect cause and correlation .
they don &apos;t understand that these things seem to be the same , but almost never the same .
and this is something that we need to learn , and very quickly .
this guy was a hero , jonas salk .
he liberated us from one of the worst spirits of humanity .
no fear , no source , child paralysis , phew , disappeared .
the guy in the middle not so much .
so today , i want to take you on a kind of journey through the ethnosphere , a short journey through the ethnosphere to try to understand what actually was lost .
and the question is , is that good news or bad news ?
it &apos;s called paul offit .
he &apos;s just developed a rotavirus vaccine with a few other people .
he can save the lives of 4,000-, 500,000 children a year in the developing world .
pretty good , right ?
now , that &apos;s good , besides paul walking around talking about vaccines and saying how valuable they are , and that people should just stop complaining .
and that &apos;s actually what he says .
so paul is a terrorist .
when paul talks in a public hearing , he can &apos;t say without armed guards .
he gets calls at home because people like to tell him that they know where his kids go to school .
and why ? because paul made a vaccine .
the answer is yes .
i don &apos;t need to say that , but vaccines are essential .
take it away , go back , horrible diseases , and that &apos;s what &apos;s happening .
we now have masers in this country .
and that gets worse , and pretty soon , kids will die again , because that &apos;s just a question of numbers .
and they &apos;re not just going to die of masers .
what about parenting ? let &apos;s take that . why not ?
a commander of mine wrote to me a few weeks ago , and she said she thought i was a little bit too shrimp .
nobody has ever said that before .
she wouldn &apos;t vaccinate her child against child paralysis . no way .
fine .
we all know what &apos;s good about it , so i &apos;m going to get a bad idea of what &apos;s bad about it .
why ? because we don &apos;t have child paralysis . and you know what ?
we didn &apos;t have a child paralysis in this country yesterday .
today , i don &apos;t know , maybe somebody in lagos got on an airplane this morning , and it &apos;s just going to los angeles , and he &apos;s over ohio right now .
and in a few hours , he ends up renting a car , and he comes to long beach , and he &apos;s going to visit one of these amazing ted dinner tonight .
and he doesn &apos;t know that he &apos;s infected with a paralyzing disease , and we don &apos;t know , because that &apos;s how the world works .
this is the planet that we live on . don &apos;t pretend it &apos;s not .
we love to harbor in lies . we love that .
did you take all your vitamins this morning ?
echinacea , a small antioxidantium that helps them jump .
i know you &apos;ve done that because half the americans do it every day .
all these choices have two effects , two negative effects on people .
they take this stuff , and they take alternative cure , and it doesn &apos;t matter how often we find that they &apos;re useless .
the data is always showing this .
they evaporate their urine . they almost never do .
that &apos;s okay , you want to pay 28 billion dollars for dark urine .
i totally agree with you .
dark urine . dark .
why do we do that ? why do we do that ?
well , i think i understand -- we hate the pharmaceutical industry .
we hate too strong government . we have no trust in the system .
and we shouldn &apos;t . our healthcare system is mies .
one effect , paradoxically , is that it &apos;s paralyzed rather than free .
it &apos;s cruel to millions of people .
it &apos;s absolutely astonishing cold and soul to ourselves that can afford it .
so we run away from it , and where do we go ?
we run into the arms of the placebo industry .
that &apos;s great . i love the placebo industry .
but , you know , this is really a serious issue , because the stuff is crap , and we spend billions of dollars on it .
and i have all sorts of little props here .
none of them -- gingko , fraud , echinacea , fraud , acai , i don &apos;t even know what that is , but we spend billions of dollars on it , it &apos;s fraud .
and you know what ? when i say that , people scream at me and say , &quot; what cares ? let people do what they want .
that &apos;s how you feel good . &quot;
with so many options that you can choose , people are very hard to even choose .
and you know what ? they &apos;re wrong .
because i don &apos;t care whether it &apos;s the minister of health who says , &quot; hmm , i &apos;m not going to take the evidence of my experts to mammography , &quot; or any cancer quacksalver who wants to treat his patients with caffe-imps .
if you &apos;re on this path , where belief and magic are replacing evidence and science , you get to a place where you don &apos;t want to be .
they get to thabo mbeki in south africa .
he killed 400,000 of his people , because he insisted that red beds , bone and lemon oil are much more effective than antiretroviral drugs that we know can stop the course of aids .
hundreds of thousands of unnecessary deaths in a country that is placed worse than any other disease .
please don &apos;t tell me that these things don &apos;t have consequences .
they have them . they always have them .
now , the most brainless epidemic that we &apos;re in right now is this absurd struggle between the proponents of genetically engineered food and the bio-elite .
this is an idiotic debate . it has to stop .
i &apos;m going to give you another drastic example of this , a study of investing in volunteer aging .
it &apos;s a debate about words , about metaphors .
this is ideology , not science .
everything that we eat , every rice , every branch of petersily , every rose charcoal , has been changed by people .
you know , there were no mandarin in paradise .
there was no cantaloupe-melon .
there were no christmas trees . we did all this .
we &apos;ve done it in the last 11,000 years .
and some of it worked and some of it didn &apos;t .
we got rid of what didn &apos;t work .
now we can make it more accurate , and of course there are risks , but we can do something like vitamin a in rice , and the stuff can help millions of people to extend their lives .
a colleague of mine had access to investment records of vanguard , the gigantic fund society of about a million employees and about 2,000 different jobs .
you don &apos;t want to do that ?
i have to say , i don &apos;t understand that .
we reject genetically engineered food .
why do we do that ?
now , what i hear is too many chemicals , pesticides , hormones , monoculture , we don &apos;t want huge fields with one thing , that &apos;s wrong .
we don &apos;t want companies to patent lives .
we don &apos;t want companies to have seeds .
and you know what my answer to all this is ?
yes , you &apos;re right . let &apos;s fix that .
it &apos;s true , we have a huge food problem , but that &apos;s not science .
and what she found was per 10 investment fund that the employers offered , took the participation by two percent .
this has nothing to do with science .
it &apos;s right , morality , patent stuff .
you know that science is not a company .
it &apos;s not a country .
it &apos;s not even an idea ; it &apos;s a process .
it &apos;s a process , and sometimes it works , and sometimes it doesn &apos;t , but the idea that we shouldn &apos;t allow science to do their work , because we &apos;re afraid to do their work is a real thing , and it keeps millions of people from blooming .
you know , in the next 50 years , we &apos;re going to have to grow 70 percent more food than right now . 70 percent .
this investment in africa in the last 30 years .
shame . shame .
they need that , and we don &apos;t give it to them .
they offer 50 investment fund -- 10 percent less employees participate than if they only offered five . why ?
and why ? genetically engineered food .
we don &apos;t want to encourage people to eat this rotten stuff , like maniok .
maniok is something that half a billion people eat .
it &apos;s kind of like a potato .
it &apos;s just a bundle of calories . it &apos;s mies .
it has no nutrients , it has no protein , and scientists are building all this in it .
and then people could eat it , and they wouldn &apos;t get blind .
you wouldn &apos;t starve , and you know what ?
that would be beautiful . it wouldn &apos;t be chez panisse , but it would be beautiful .
and all i can say about this is , why do we fight this ?
we &apos;re all born . we &apos;re bringing children to the world .
now there are some of us who kind of forget that when i say , &quot; different possibilities of being , &quot; i mean really different possibilities of being .
because it &apos;s 50 investment fund , which is a choice , it &apos;s so hard to decide which one to choose , that they &apos;re going to push it up in the morning .
i mean , let &apos;s ask ourselves , why do we fight this ?
because we don &apos;t want to move genes around ?
it &apos;s not about pushing genes around . it &apos;s not about chemicals .
it &apos;s not about our ridiculous passion for hormones , our persistence for larger food , better food , unique food .
it &apos;s not about rice krispies , it &apos;s about keeping people alive , and it &apos;s about time to understand what that means .
because you know what ?
if we don &apos;t do that , if we keep doing it the way we &apos;re doing it , we &apos;re guilty of something that i think we don &apos;t want to be guilty of , high-tech colonialism .
there &apos;s no other description for what &apos;s going on here .
it &apos;s selfish , it &apos;s ugly , it &apos;s not our worthy , and we really have to stop that .
so after this incredibly funny conversation , you might want to say , &quot; do you still want to go into this ridiculous time machine and go into the future ? &quot;
and then tomorrow , and then tomorrow , and tomorrow , and tomorrow , and tomorrow , of course , never comes .
anyway . i certainly want that .
right now , it &apos;s in the present , but we have an incredible opportunity .
we can put this time machine on everything we want .
we can move them where we want to move them , and we &apos;re going to move them to where we want to .
we have to have these conversations , and we have to think , but when we get into the time machine and we go into the future , we &apos;re going to be happy to have done that .
i know we can , and as far as i &apos;m concerned , this is something that the world needs now .
thank you .
thank you .
for some time , i &apos;ve been interested in the placebo effect , and it may seem strange that a magician is interested in it , unless you look at it as i do , &quot; a deception that becomes something real , if somebody believes in it hard enough . &quot;
in other words , sugar pills have shown a measurable effect in some studies , the placebo effect , and that &apos;s because the person thinks what &apos;s happening to her is a pharmaceutical or a kind of -- in pain management , for example , if the patient believes only enough to do it , there &apos;s a measurable effect in the body called the placebo effect .
understand that it &apos;s not just that people have to eat dog food when they go to retirement , because they don &apos;t have enough money to go back , it &apos;s also that the decisions are so hard that they miss large investers in their employers .
a deception becomes something real , because somebody perceives it like this .
so in order to understand each other , i want to show you a fundamental , simple magic trick .
and i &apos;m going to show you how it works . this is a trick that is at least in every magic book for kids since the 1950s .
i learned him from the cub scout magic of the path finder in the 1970s .
i &apos;m going to do it for you and then explain it .
and then i &apos;ll explain why i explain it .
so , look what happens .
the knife that you can study ; my hand that you can study .
i &apos;m just going to keep the knife in my fault .
i &apos;m going to push my sleeve back .
through the non-participation , they give up to 5,000 u.s. dollars a year on the employer who would have been happy to multiply their contribution .
and to make sure that nothing in my sleeve disappears or comes out of him , i &apos;m just going to put my wrist together right here .
in this way , you can see that there &apos;s nothing going on at any time , and as long as i put it here , nothing can go into my sleeve or come out .
and the goal is very simple .
i &apos;m going to open my hand , and hopefully , if everything goes well , the knife will be held by my mere physical magnetism .
it &apos;s actually sitting so hard in its place that i can shake it without the knife falling down .
nothing goes into my sleeve or comes out , no trickster , and you can study everything .
ta-da !
now , this is a trick that i often teach little kids about magic , because you can learn a lot about deception , even though it &apos;s a very simple trick .
probably many of you in this room know this trick .
it works like this .
paralysis is a consequence of too many choices .
i hold the knife in my hand .
i &apos;m saying that i &apos;m going to close my wrist to make sure that nothing disappears in my sleeve or comes out , and that &apos;s a lie .
the reason i hold my wrist is because there is the actual secret of the illusion .
because the moment i turn my hand away from you , so you can see it from the back , this finger is moving , my index finger , just from where it was , to a position where it was so extended .
great trick ?
there &apos;s somebody in the back who didn &apos;t have a childhood .
so , it &apos;s here . right .
and when i turn around , the finger changes its position .
and now you could talk about why this is a deception , why you don &apos;t realize that there are only three fingers down here : because the mind and the way it processes information , it doesn &apos;t matter one-by-one , two , three , it sees it as a group .
but that &apos;s actually not what this is about , and then i open my hand .
and i think it makes the world look like this .
of course , it &apos;s stuck there , but not through the magnetism of my body , but through a trick , through my index finger , which is now there .
and when i close my hand , the same thing happens by turning back , is hidden by this movement that the finger is moving back .
i take this hand away . and here &apos;s the knife .
this trick you can do to your friends and neighbors . thank you .
now , what does this have to do with the placebo effect ?
a year ago or so , i read a study that really blew my mind .
i &apos;m not a doctor or a researcher , and so that was an amazing thing for me .
and it turns out that if you offer a placebo in the form of a white pill , in the form of an aspirintablet , it &apos;s just a round , white pill that has a certain measurable effect .
but if you change the shape in which you give the placebo , for example , into a smaller pill , and you change these blue bars and you put a letter on it , it &apos;s actually more effective .
and this , although none of these are pharmaceutical -- they &apos;re just sugar pills .
you really want to make the decision right if it &apos;s for all eternity , right ?
but a white pill is not as good as a blue pill .
what ? that really made me freak out .
but it turns out that that &apos;s not all .
if you take capsules , they &apos;re even more effective than pills of any shape .
a colored capsule , which is yellow at one end and the other red , is better than a white capsule .
the dosing is also a role .
a pill twice a day is not as good as three pills -- i can &apos;t remember the exact statistics . sorry .
but the key thing is ...
... that the doses also matter .
and the shape plays a role .
you don &apos;t want to choose the wrong investment fund , or even the wrong salatdressing .
and if you want to have the ultimate placebo effect , you have to reach the needle .
right ? a syringe with an ineffective -- a few milliliters of an ineffective substance that you inject to a patient .
this creates a very strong picture in your head . it &apos;s much stronger than a white pill .
this chart is really -- i &apos;m going to show you another time we have a projector .
so the fact is that the white pill doesn &apos;t look as good as the blue pill , which doesn &apos;t look as good as a capsule that doesn &apos;t work as well as the needle .
and none of that has any real pharmaceutical property , and it &apos;s just our belief that has a stronger effect in us .
i wanted to know if i could use this idea for a magic trick .
i take something that &apos;s obviously a deception , and i make it look real .
now we know from this study that you have to reach out to the needle when you want to go to the thing .
this is a four-inch hutneedle . it &apos;s very , very sharp , and i &apos;m going to sterilize it a little bit first .
so that &apos;s the one effect . the other effect is that even if we overcome the paralysis and make a decision , we end up less satisfied with the outcome of choice than if we had the opportunity to choose between less possibilities .
this is really my meat . it &apos;s not damians &apos; specialized meat .
this is my skin . this is not a special effect from hollywood .
now i &apos;m going to put this needle in my skin , and i &apos;m going to go through it until it &apos;s going to stick back on the other side .
if you &apos;re going to be miserable -- if you &apos;re going to fall easily in your ears -- i showed this to a couple of friends last night in the hotel room , and some people i didn &apos;t know , and a woman has become almost powerless .
so i propose , if you &apos;re going to get bad quickly , look away for the next 30 seconds , or , you know , i &apos;m going to do the first healing part here in the back .
you can see it in a moment , but you can also see away if you want .
so , it goes like this , right here where my flesh starts , at the bottom of my arm , i &apos;m just going to make a little unicorn .
i &apos;m really sorry . does it make you crazy ?
and now just a little bit of my skin and on the other side , it &apos;s like this .
now we &apos;re actually in the same situation that we had at the knife trick .
and there are several reasons for this .
about it .
but now you can &apos;t count my fingers , right ?
so , i &apos;m going to show you . this is one , two , three , four , five .
well , yeah .
i know what people think when they see that .
they say , &quot; okay , that &apos;s not so stupid , and it &apos;s going through the skin just to talk for a few minutes . &quot;
well , then i &apos;m going to show you .
what does this look like ? pretty good .
yeah , i know .
and people in the back say , &quot; okay . i didn &apos;t see that right . &quot;
for example , take this child of the barasana in the northwest of the amazon , the people of the anakonda , believe that they were mythologically coming up with the milky river from the east in the belly of sacred snakes .
one of them is required by the great selection of different salatdressing , if you buy one , and it &apos;s not perfect -- and , what salatdressing is perfect ? it &apos;s easy to imagine that you could have made a different decision that would have been better . and what happened is that billly imagined alternative leads you to regret the decision , and that regret is negative to the satisfaction that you made by your decision , even if it was a good decision .
the people in the next-door rooms are now coming in .
let me show you from near .
this is really my skin . this is not a special effect from hollywood .
that &apos;s my meat , and i can turn that around .
sorry . if you get bad , look away , don &apos;t look .
the people in the back , or the people who see this at some point on video , will say , &quot; well , this looks pretty impressive , but if it was real , it would -- look , here &apos;s a hole , and there , if it was really real , it would bleed . &quot;
okay , let me squeeze some blood for you .
yes , here it is .
i would normally take the needle out .
i would clean my arm and show you that there are no wounds .
the more possibilities there are , the easier it is to regret at all that is disappointing to the choice that they make .
but i think in this framework here and with the intention of making something real , i &apos;m just going to leave the needle in there and go from the stage .
we &apos;re going to meet a few times in the next few days .
i hope you &apos;ll be looking forward to that . thank you very much .
everybody is talking about happiness today .
i &apos;ve let some people count the number of books that have been published with happiness in the title of the last five years , and they &apos;ve given up after about 40 , and there &apos;s a lot more .
there &apos;s a tremendous wave of interest in happiness among researchers .
there &apos;s a lot of luck coaching .
everybody would like to make people happier .
but despite all this flood of work , there are several cognitive traps that make it almost impossible to think clearly about happiness .
and my talk today is mostly about these cognitive fall .
secondly , what economists call oppertunity costs .
this is true of layman thinking about their own happiness , and it &apos;s true for scientists who think about happiness , because it turns out that we are just as mess as anyone else .
the first of these fall is a contradiction to admit complexity .
it turns out that the word happiness is simply no longer a useful word , because we apply it to too many different things .
i think there &apos;s a certain meaning that we could confine , but by and large , that &apos;s something we need to give up , and we &apos;re going to have to take the complicated perspective on what well-being is .
the second trap is a confusion of experience and memory : basically , it &apos;s between being happy in his life and being happy about his life or happy with his life .
and these are two very different concepts , and they &apos;re both together in the idea of happiness .
and the third is the concentration illusion , and that &apos;s the unfortunate fact that we can &apos;t think about a circumstance that affects well-being without distorting its meaning .
i mean , this is a real cognitive trap .
there &apos;s just no way to get it right .
now i &apos;d like to start with an example of someone who had a question and answer session after one of my lectures , who reported a story . &#91; unclear &#93; he said he &apos;d heard a symphony , and it was absolutely wonderful music , and at the end of the recording , there was a terrible circular sound .
dan gilbert made a big point this morning by telling how much we judge things depends on what we compare .
and then he added in , really quite emotionally , and it ruined the whole experience .
but it didn &apos;t .
what it ruined was the memories of the experience .
he had the experience .
he had had 20 minutes of wonderful music .
they didn &apos;t count because he was connected to a memory ; the memory was ruined , and the memory was all he had gotten to keep .
what this really tells us is that we could think about ourselves and other people in the sense of two types of self .
there &apos;s a living self that lives in the present and knows the present is able to experience the past , but has basically just the present .
it &apos;s the living self that the doctor is demanding -- you know , when the doctor says , &quot; does it hurt now if i look at you here ? &quot;
and then there &apos;s a remembering self , and the memory itself is the one that counts and receives the history of our lives , and it &apos;s the one that the doctor is talking to by asking the question , &quot; how did you feel lately ? &quot;
well , if there are lots and lots of alternatives to think about , it &apos;s easy to imagine attractive properties of alternatives that you exclude , that makes you less satisfied with the alternatives that you &apos;ve chosen .
or &quot; what was your journey to albania ? &quot; or something like that .
these are two very different units , the living self and the remembering self , and to confuse them is part of the confusion of happiness .
now , the memory itself is a storyteller .
and this really starts with a fundamental reaction to our memories -- it starts immediately .
we &apos;re not just telling stories when we &apos;re going to tell stories .
our memory tells us stories , which means what we can keep from our experiences is a story .
and let &apos;s start with an example .
there &apos;s an old study .
these are real patients undergoing a painful procedure .
i &apos;m not going to go into the details . it &apos;s not painful today , but it was painful when this study was done in the 1990s .
here &apos;s an example . for those of you who are not new yorkers , i apologize .
they were asked to report their pain every 60 seconds .
and here are two patients . these are their records .
and they &apos;re asked , &quot; who of them suffered more ? &quot;
and that &apos;s a very simple question .
patient b clearly suffered more . his gut reflection was longer , and every minute of pain that patient a had had , patient b , and more .
but now there &apos;s another question : &quot; how much did these patients think they were suffering ? &quot;
and here &apos;s a surprise .
and the surprise is that patient a had a much worse memory of the gut reflection than patient b .
the stories of the gut reflections were different , and because a very important part of the story is how it ends .
and none of these stories are very building or great -- but one of them is clear ...
but here &apos;s what you should have thought .
but one of them is much worse than the other .
and the one that &apos;s worse was where the pain was at the very end of its peak . it &apos;s a bad story .
how do we know ?
because we asked these people about their gut reflection , and much later , &quot; how bad was the whole thing ? &quot;
and she was much worse for a than b in the memory .
now , this is a direct conflict between the living self and the remembering self .
from the experience of the living self , b clearly had a worse time .
now , what you could do with patient a , and we actually did clinical trials , and it &apos;s been done , and it works , you could actually extend the reflection of patient a by just letting the tube in without shaking too much of it .
this is going to lead to the patient suffering , but only a little bit and much less than before .
and if you do that for a few minutes , you &apos;ve done that the living self of patient a is worse off , and you &apos;ve done that the memory of patient a is much better off , because now you &apos;ve given patient a a a a better story about your experience .
here &apos;s a couple on the hamptons .
what is a story about ?
and that &apos;s true of the stories that memory provides us , and it &apos;s true of the stories that we invent .
which is a story that makes a difference , a meaningful moment , and ends .
ends are very , very important , and in this case , the end dominated .
now , the living self lives its life continuously .
it has moments of life , one after the other .
and you ask , what happens to these moments ?
and the answer is really simple . they &apos;re lost forever .
i mean , most of the moments of our lives -- and i &apos;ve calculated that -- you know , the psychological presence is about three seconds , which means , you know , there &apos;s about 600 million of them in a life . in a month , there &apos;s about 600,000 . most of them don &apos;t leave any trace .
most of you are completely ignored by the memory itself .
very expensive real estate .
and yet , you kind of get the impression that you should count that what happened during that moment of life is our lives .
it &apos;s the limited resource that we use while we &apos;re in this world .
and how we used it would seem to be important , but that &apos;s not the story that holds the memory for ourselves .
so we have the memory itself and the experience itself , and they &apos;re really quite different .
the biggest difference between them is the transition over time .
from the perspective of the living self , if you have a vacation and the second week is just as good as the first , then the two weekly vacation is twice as good as the one weekly vacation .
this is not how it works for the memory itself at all .
for the remembering self , a two-week vacation is hardly better than the one weekly vacation , because there are no new memories added .
they haven &apos;t changed the story .
and in this way , time is actually the critical variable that distinguishes a reminder self from a living self , time has very little influence on this story .
beautiful beach . great day . you have it all for yourself .
now , the memory itself makes more than remembering and telling stories .
it &apos;s actually the one that makes decisions , because if you have a patient who , say , had two perceptions in two different surgeons and decides which one to vote , then the one who chooses the memory that &apos;s less bad , and that &apos;s the surgeon that will be selected .
the living self doesn &apos;t have a voice in that choice .
in fact , we don &apos;t choose between experiences . we choose between memories of experiences .
and even when we think about the future , we don &apos;t usually think of our future as experiences .
we think about our future as predictable memories .
and basically , you can look at this , you know , as a tyranny of the memory itself , and you can think of the memory itself as one that kind of draws the experience itself through experiences that the experience itself doesn &apos;t need .
i have the impression that if we do vacation , it &apos;s very often the case , which is that we make vacations largely in the service of the memory itself .
and that &apos;s a little hard to justify , i think .
i mean , how much do we consume from our memories ?
this is a people who are not cognitively distinguished between the colors of blue and green , because the sky scene is the same to the forest that people depend on .
what could be better ? &quot; &quot; damn &quot; the man thinks , &quot; it &apos;s august .
this is one of the explanations that is given to the dominance of the memory itself .
and when i think about it , i think about a vacation that we made a few years ago in antarctica , which was clearly the best vacation i &apos;ve ever had , and i think relatively often in relation to how many times i think of other vacations .
and i &apos;ve probably eaten from my memories of this three-week journey , i would say , for about 25 minutes in the last four years .
now , if i had ever opened the folder with the 600 images in it , i would have spent another hour .
well , that &apos;s three weeks , and that &apos;s at least one and a half hours .
there seems to be a disagreement .
now , i may be a little extreme , you know , in how little appetite i have on the ears of memories , but even if you make more of them , there &apos;s a real question . why do we give memories so much weight in the course of the weight that we give experience ?
so i want you to think about a thought experiment .
imagine your next vacation , you know , at the end of the vacation , all of your images are destroyed , and you get an amnesiac drug , so you won &apos;t remember anything .
now , would you choose the same vacation ?
everyone in my manhattan neighborhood is gone .
and if you were to choose a different vacation , there &apos;s a conflict between your two types of self and you have to think about how you decide this conflict , and that &apos;s really not obvious , because if you think in the sense of time , you get an answer . and if you think in the sense of memories , you might get a different answer .
why we choose the vacation that we choose is a problem that we face with a choice between the two types of self .
now , the two types of self are throwing two terms of happiness .
there are actually two concepts of happiness that we can apply , one per self .
so you can ask : how happy is the living self ?
and then you would ask , how happy are the moments in the life of the living self ?
and they &apos;re all -- happiness for moments is a pretty complicated process .
what are the emotions that can be measured ?
and , by the way , we are now able to get a pretty good idea of the happiness of the living self over time .
if you ask about the happiness of the memory itself , it &apos;s a very different thing .
i could park in front of my house . &quot;
that &apos;s not about how happy a person lives .
it &apos;s about how happy or happy the person is when that person thinks about their lives .
very different term .
anyone who doesn &apos;t distinguish these terms is going to mess up the exploration of happiness , and i &apos;m part of a lot of researchers about well-being , who have long screwed up the exploration of happiness in this way .
the distinction between the happiness of the living self and the satisfaction of the memory itself has been recognized in the last few years , and now you &apos;re trying to measure the two separate .
the gallup organization has a global survey , where more than half a million people have been asked questions about what they think about their lives and about their experiences , and there have been other efforts in the direction .
so in the last few years , we &apos;ve started to learn about the happiness of the two types of self .
and the main lesson that we &apos;ve learned , i think , is that they &apos;re really different .
you can know how satisfied someone is with their lives , and that really doesn &apos;t teach them much about how happy they live their lives and vice versa .
just to give you a sense of correlation , the correlation is about .5 .
and he spends two weeks from the thought that he missed the ability to have a great parking lot day after day .
what that means is that if you met someone , and you would tell them , oh , their father is a two-meter man , how much would you know about their size ?
well , you would know something about its size , but there &apos;s a lot of uncertainty .
they have so much uncertainty .
when i tell you that someone has arranged their lives as eight on a scale of 10 , they have a lot of uncertainty about how happy they are with their own living selves .
so the correlation is low .
we know something about what determines the happiness of happiness itself .
we know that money is very important , goals are very important .
we know that happiness is mostly about being satisfied with people we like to spend time with people we like .
there are other pleasure , but that &apos;s dominant .
so if you want to maximize the happiness of the two types of self , you will end up doing very different things .
oppertunity costs reduce the satisfaction that we get from our choice , even though what we &apos;ve chosen is fantastic .
the conclusion from what i said here is that we really shouldn &apos;t think of happiness as a replacement of well-being .
it &apos;s a completely different term .
now , very briefly , another reason that we can &apos;t think about happiness clearly is that we don &apos;t pay attention to the same things when we think about life , and when we actually live .
so if you ask the simple question , how happy are the people in california , they won &apos;t get the right answer .
if you ask that question , you think that the people in california have to be happier when you live , say , in ohio .
and what happens is , when you think about life in california , think about the difference between california and other places , and that difference is , let &apos;s say , in climate .
well , it turns out that climate is not very important for the living itself , and it &apos;s not even very important for the thoughtful self that decides how happy people are .
now , because the thoughtful self is responsible , you can end up -- some people could end up going to california .
and it &apos;s kind of interesting to pursue what happens to people who are moving to california , hoping to become happier .
now , your living self is not going to get happier .
and the more possibilities there are for choice , the more attractive features of this choice are being taken into the oppertunity cost .
we know that .
but one thing will happen . you &apos;ll think you &apos;re happier , because if you think about it , you &apos;ll be reminded of how terrible the weather was in ohio , and you &apos;ll feel that you made the right decision .
it &apos;s very difficult to think clearly about well-being , and i hope i &apos;ve given you a sense of how difficult it is .
thank you .
thank you . i have a question for you .
thank you .
now , when we telephone a couple of weeks ago , they told me that there was a pretty interesting outcome that came out of this gallup poll .
is this something you can let us participate in , because now you have a few minutes left ?
daniel kahneman : sure .
i think the most interesting result that we found in the gallup poll is a number that we absolutely didn &apos;t expect to find .
here &apos;s another example .
we found this in terms of the happiness of the living self .
when we looked at how feelings vary income .
and it turns out that under an income of 60,000 dollars a year , for americans , and this is a very large sample of americans , about 600,000 , but it &apos;s a big representative sample , under a 600,000 dollars a year of income .
60,000 .
dk : 60,000 .
60,000 dollars a year , people are unhappy , and they become increasingly unhappy , the poorer they become .
we get an absolutely flat line about that .
i mean , i rarely saw flat lines .
what happens is obvious that money doesn &apos;t raise you an experience of happiness , but that lack of money is certainly accumulating you miserably , and we can measure that misery very , very clearly .
in the sense of the other self , of the memory itself , you get a different story .
now , this cartoon makes some statements .
the more money you make , the more happy you are .
that &apos;s not true of emotions .
but danny , in the entire american pursuit of life , freedom , the pursuit of happiness .
if people took this finding seriously , i mean , it seems to turn everything upside down , everything we believe , for example , in terms of tax policy and so on .
is there a chance that politicians , in general , would take a finding like the seriousness and make it based on politics ?
dk : you know , i think there &apos;s recognition for the role of the research of happiness in politics .
the recognition is going to be slow in the united states , no question , but in the united kingdom , it &apos;s happening right now , and in other countries it &apos;s happening .
people are realizing that they should think about happiness when they think about politics .
it &apos;s going to take a while , and people are going to discuss whether they want to explore experience happiness , or whether they want to explore life review , so we have to have this discussion pretty soon .
how to increase happiness is very different depending on how you think , and whether you think about the memory itself , or whether you think about the living self .
he makes a statement about living in the present , and maybe about doing things slowly .
this is going to affect politics , i think , in the coming years .
in the united states , it &apos;s hard to measure the experience of happiness of the population .
this is going to be part of the national statistics , i think , in the next decade or two .
now , it seems to me , this topic is going to be , or should be at least the most interesting political debate to pursue over the next few years .
thank you very much for inventing behavioral economics .
thank you , danny kahneman .
i &apos;m jane mcgonigal . i design computer games .
i &apos;ve been developing online games for 10 years now , and my goal for the next decade is to make it as easy to save the world in reality as it is to save in online games .
i have a plan for this . i want to convince more people , including all of you to spend more time playing bigger and more great games .
we &apos;re currently spending three billion hours a week playing with online games .
but one important point that he makes is that whenever you choose to do one thing , you decide not to do other things .
some of you might think , &quot; that &apos;s a lot of time for games . &quot;
maybe a little too much time , if you think about how many problems we have to solve in the real world .
but in fact , my research at the institute of the future is exactly the opposite .
three billion hours a week are not nearly enough to solve the most urgent problems in the world .
in fact , i &apos;m convinced that if we want to survive the next century on the planet , we need to dramatically increase that time .
i &apos;ve calculated that the time it takes is 21 billion hours of play per week .
this may seem a little bit devastating , so i &apos;ll repeat it so it can work : if we want to solve problems like hunger , poverty , climate change , global conflicts and obesity , i think we need to try to play games online for at least 21 billion hours a week to the end of the next decade .
no , i &apos;m really serious .
why ? this picture pretty much describes why i think games are so vital to the survival of the human species in the future . seriously .
this is a portrait of the photographer phil toledano .
they have a strange language and a marriage statement called linguistic exogamy : you have to marry someone who speaks a different language .
and these other things may have a lot of attractive properties , and it &apos;s going to be what they &apos;re going to do less attractive .
he wanted to capture the feelings when he was playing , so he built a camera in front of the players .
this is one of the classic expressions of play .
if you &apos;re not a player , you might get some of the nuances in this picture .
you probably see this sense of urgency , a little bit of fear , but also external concentration , completely immersed in solving a really difficult problem .
if you play , you can see some nuances here , the eyes zoomed up , and the mouth is a sign of optimism . the eyebrows show surprise .
this is a player standing on the edge of a so-called epic victory .
oh , you know that . ok . all right . so we have some players here .
an epic victory is a result that is so exceedingly positive that you didn &apos;t know it was possible at all .
it was almost beyond the imagination .
and when they do it , they &apos;re shocked that they &apos;re actually able to do this . this is an epic victory .
third , escalation of expectations .
this player is right in front of an epic victory .
and this is what we need to see on millions of faces of problem-solvers all over the world when we &apos;re attacking the barriers of the next century , the face of those who are on the edge of an epic victory .
well , unfortunately , we see this face in real life when we face difficult problems .
i call it the &quot; in life i &apos;m bad &quot; face , and it &apos;s actually my face , right ? yes ? ok .
this is me making the &quot; in life i &apos;m bad &quot; face .
this is a graffiti in my former home in berkeley , california , where i was studying why we are better in games than we are in real life .
this is a problem that many players have .
we think that we &apos;re not as good in reality as we are in play .
and i don &apos;t just mean less successfully , even though that &apos;s part of it .
we do more in games . i mean , in the context of motivation to do something significant , inspired to collaborate with each other .
this struck me when i wanted to exchange my jeans .
when we &apos;re in a game world , i think many of us are turned into our best version , at any given time and instantly willing to try to solve the problem , as long as necessary , to try it again after the failure .
and in reality , when we fail , when we hit obstacles , we often feel different .
we feel overwhelmed . we feel defeated . we feel threatened , maybe depressed , frustrated or cynical .
these feelings we never have when we play games , they just don &apos;t exist in games .
and that &apos;s what i wanted to do as a ph.d. student .
why is it impossible in games to think you couldn &apos;t just do anything ?
how can we transmit these feelings from the games into reality ?
so i looked at games like the world of warcraft , which offers the ideal environment to solve the collaborative problem .
and i &apos;ve found some things that make epic victories possible in online worlds .
so , first of all , when you get in one of these online games , especially in world of warcraft , there are a lot of different characters who are willing to trust you a global mission , and immediately .
i wear jeans , almost all the time .
but not just any mission , but a mission that fit perfectly to your current level in the game , right ?
so they can do that .
they never get a task that they can &apos;t solve .
but always at the edge of your ability , so you have to get tired of it , but there &apos;s no unemployment in the world of warcraft .
you don &apos;t sit around and turn around . there &apos;s always something important to do .
and there are a lot of collaborators .
wherever you go , hundreds of thousands of people working with you to close your epic mission .
we don &apos;t have that easy in real life , that feeling that when you have a fingertips , you have a staff ready .
also , there &apos;s this epic story , this inspiring story of why we are there and what we have to do .
then we get this whole positive feedback .
and there was a time when there was only jeans in one way , and they bought them , and they were badly adapted , they were incredibly uncomfortable , and if they had carried them long enough and often washed enough , they started to feel ok .
you &apos;ve probably heard of &quot; level up &quot; and &quot; + 1 strength , &quot; or &quot; + 1 intelligence . &quot;
this constant feedback is not in real life .
when i leave this stage , i don &apos;t have a + 1 , and + 1 crazy idea , + 20 crazy idea .
i don &apos;t get that feedback in real life .
so , the problem of cooperative online worlds like world of warcraft is that it &apos;s so satisfying to stand at any time on the edge of an epic victory that we prefer to spend all our time in these game worlds .
they &apos;re just better than reality .
to this day , all the world of warcraft players have spent 5.93 million years trying to solve the virtual problems of azeroth .
that &apos;s not necessarily a bad thing .
it may sound bad .
but to see it in context , 5.93 million years ago , our first primate ancestors started to go upright .
so , to buy new jeans after many years of wearing the old one , and i said , &quot; i &apos;d like to have some jeans , here &apos;s my size . &quot;
so the first exciting primate .
ok , so when we talk about how much time we spend with games right now , it just makes sense when you think about time in terms of the scale of human development , which is extraordinary .
but it turns out , because it turns out that by using all this time on play , we actually change what we &apos;re capable of as human beings .
we &apos;re developing into community-thinking , heart-to-heart creatures .
that &apos;s the truth . that &apos;s what i believe .
if you look at this interesting statistic that has recently been published by a researcher at carnegie mellon university , the average young man of today , in a country with strong play culture , is spending 10,000 hours playing online to the 21st year of life .
so , 10,000 hours is a very interesting number for two reasons .
first of all , for kids in the united states , 10.080 hours is the exact total work that they spend in school , from the fifth grade to the high school graduation -- if you never miss .
so here we have a complete parallel education , where young people learn in the same way , what it means to be a good player , like anything else they learn in school .
and maybe some of you have read the new book by malcolm gladwell , &quot; flying over . &quot;
and the salesman said , &quot; do you want snake , easy or extensive ?
so you know his theory of success , the theory of the success of 10,000 hours .
it &apos;s based on the great research of cognitive science that if we spend 10,000 hours studying any subject to the 21st year , we become masters in it .
we get so good at doing whatever it is , like the most important people in the world .
so what we have here is a whole generation of young people who are master-players .
so the big question is , &quot; what exactly are players mastery ? &quot;
because if we could figure that out , we would have basically never had any human potential before .
so many people are now in the world who are spending at least one hour per day playing online games .
these are our master players . 500 million people who are extraordinarily good at something .
and in the next decade , we have another billion players who are extraordinarily good at whatever .
if you haven &apos;t heard it yet .
do you want buttons or fangs ? stone or acid ?
the game industry develops consoles that save energy and work on mobile networks , rather than the broadband internet , so that players around the world , especially in india , china , brazil , can play online .
you expect an extra billion players in the next decade .
so we have 1.5 billion players in total .
so i started thinking about what it is that these games make us mastery of .
here are the four things i found . first of all , urgency optimism .
ok , think of this as extreme self-motivating .
urgency optimism is the desire to do something immediately , to master a hurdle , along with the belief that we have a founded hope for success .
players always believe that an epic victory is possible , and it &apos;s always worth trying , and it &apos;s the same .
players don &apos;t sit around .
players are masters in the spider of social networks .
do you want jeans with holes ?
there are a lot of interesting studies that show that we people like more after we play with them , even if they defeated us miserably .
the reason for that is that it requires a lot of trust to play a game with someone .
we trust that somebody spends time with us , that the rules are held , that we have the same goal and we stay with it until the end of the game .
so playing together enables the growth of ties , trust and each other .
as a result , we build stronger social relationships .
happy productivity . fantastic !
you know , there &apos;s a reason why the average word of warcraft players play 22 hours a week , as a part-time job .
the reason is that when we play , we &apos;re actually happier at working hard than when we &apos;re relaxing or doing nothing .
we know that as human beings , we work optimally when we do hard , significant work .
and players are always ready to work hard when they get the right task .
do you want to cut a long way , cookie , blah , blah , blah , blah ... &quot; and so on , he said .
and finally , epic meaning .
players love to become part of the awe of planetary missions .
here &apos;s a backbone formation to bring that to the right side , and you know all wikipedia , the largest wiki in the world .
the second largest wiki in the world , with almost 80,000 entries , is the world of warcraft wiki .
five million people use it every month .
they put together more information about the world of warcraft on the internet than any other subject in any other wiki in the world .
they create an epic story .
they create an epic source of knowledge about the world of warcraft .
ok , so these are four superpowers that lead to a single outcome : players are super-powerful , hopeful individuals .
these are people who believe that as individuals , they can change the world .
all of this is rooted in the mythological past , and the strange thing about these big houses that are spoken in because of the mischief six or seven languages , is that you never hear somebody who learns a language .
my jaw was down , and after i recovered , i said , &quot; i &apos;d like to have the way that used to be the only species . &quot;
and the only problem is that you think you can change the virtual worlds , but not the real ones .
that &apos;s the problem i &apos;m trying to solve .
edward castronova is a economist .
his work is brilliant . he studies why people spend so much time , energy and money in online worlds .
and he says , &quot; we &apos;re not going to witness less than a mass emigration in virtual worlds and online game environments . &quot;
and this is from an economist . so he &apos;s logical .
and he says ...
not as i do -- i develop games , i &apos;m a little bit obsolete .
so he says that actually makes sense , because players can achieve more in online worlds than in real life .
they can make more social ties in games than in real life . they get more feedback and rewards in games than in real life .
he had no idea what that was , so i spent an hour trying to do all these damn jeans , and i got the business -- and i say the truth -- with the best passing jeans i &apos;ve ever had .
so , he says it &apos;s totally logical right now that players spend more time in the virtual world than in the real world .
i &apos;ll just agree , that &apos;s logical .
but it &apos;s definitely not an optimal situation .
we need to start turning the real world into a game .
my inspiration comes from an event that is 2,500 years back .
there are these ancient cubes of sheep . you know ?
before these fantastic game controllers , there were sheep .
and these were , in a way , the first human being to develop toys .
and if you &apos;re familiar with the work of the ancient greek historian herodotus , you may know this story , the story of how and why games have been invented .
according to herodotus , games , special cubic games , were invented in the kingdom of lydia during famine .
i had better . all this choice allowed me to have better .
there was such a great famine that the king of lydia decided to have a crazy idea .
people were suffering . people were fighting .
it was an extreme situation . you needed an extreme solution .
so they invented , according to herodotus , the cube game , and they agreed a national strategy , and one day you would eat , and the next day you would play .
and they would be so deep into the cube , because games are so fascinating and surrounding us with satisfying , happy productivity that they would forget that there was nothing to eat .
and then the next day you would play . and the next day you would eat .
and according to herodotus , they survived this famine for 18 years by eating and playing the next day .
likewise , i think we &apos;re going to put in games today .
we use games to escape the suffering of the real world .
we put in games to get rid of everything that doesn &apos;t work in the real world , everything that &apos;s not satisfying in real life , and we get what we need from the games .
but i felt worse .
but that doesn &apos;t have to be the end .
that &apos;s the exciting thing .
according to herodotus , after 18 years , famine didn &apos;t get better , so the king decided to make a last cube game .
they divided the kingdom into two halves .
they played a cube game , and the winners were allowed to break up to an epic adventure .
they left lydia and they went looking for a new home , leaving as many people as there were food to survive and looking for the rest of a neighborhood where they could thrive .
that sounds crazy , right ?
but the latest dna evidence shows that the etrussians who later formed the roman empire have the same dna as the old lydics .
so scientists recently came to think that herodotus &apos;s crazy story was actually true .
and geologists found evidence of a global cooling that took almost 20 years to explain what the famine might be .
why ? i wrote a whole book to try and explain it to myself .
so this crazy story could be true .
maybe they actually saved their people by playing , by escaping into games for 18 years , and then having this insight and learning so much about playing with each other that they saved the whole civilization .
so , we can do that .
we &apos;ve been playing warcraft since 1994 .
this was the first strategy game in real time of the world of warcraft series . this was 16 years ago .
they played cube games for 18 years , we &apos;ve been playing warcraft for 16 years .
i &apos;m saying we &apos;re ready for our own epic game .
so , they sent half of their civilization to look for a new world , so i take my 21 billion play hours a week .
we should reconcile that half of us spend an hour playing every day until we &apos;ve solved the real world &apos;s problems .
i know you &apos;re going to ask , &quot; how do we solve problems in the real world in games ? &quot; and that &apos;s exactly what i &apos;ve been devoting my work at the institute for the last few years to the future .
the reason i felt worse was because of all these possibilities available , my expectations for what a good couple of jeans are going up .
we have this banner in our office in palo alto , and it expresses how we should understand the future .
we don &apos;t want to try to say the future before .
what we want is to create the future .
we want to imagine the best possible outcome , and then we empower people to implement this idea into reality .
we imagine epic victories and we give people the opportunity to reach them .
i &apos;m going to show you three games that i designed to try to create people epic victories in their own future .
this is &quot; world without oil . &quot;
the game is from 2007 .
it &apos;s an online game where you have to overcome an oil scarcity .
i had very low expectations . i had no concrete expectations when it was just in a way .
we tested this game with 1,700 players in 2007 , and we &apos;ve been with it for the last three years since then .
and i can tell you , it was a transformative experience .
nobody wants to change their lives because it &apos;s good for the environment , or because we should .
but if you &apos;re in an epic adventure and you get said , &quot; we &apos;re going to run out of the oil . &quot;
this is a fascinating adventure to go into .
find out how they would survive . most of our players have kept in the game of the common habits .
so for the next world-saving game , we have a bigger , higher goal than just oil scarcity .
we &apos;ve developed the game superstruct at the institute for the future .
the starting point is the calculation of a supercomputer that people only have 23 years on the planet left .
this supercomputer is called &quot; global mortality , sensitivity system , &quot; of course .
when they came to 100 species , damn well , one of them should have been perfect .
the call to gamers , we &apos;ve almost created a &quot; jerry bruckheimer &quot; movie .
you know jerry bruckheimer movies , where there &apos;s the dream-team . they have the astronauts , the scientists , the ex-strands , and they can only save the world together .
but in our game , instead of just five people , we say , everybody is in the dream-team , and it &apos;s our job to create the future for energy , food , health , security and the future of social justice .
8,000 players played the game for eight weeks .
they found 500 incredibly creative solutions that they can read when they google &quot; superstruct . &quot;
and the last game we bring out on march 3 , which is a game in collaboration with the world bank .
when you finish the game , you get the award from the world bank , &quot; social transformation , &quot; in 2010 .
we work with universities all over sub-saharan africa , and we invite them to learn how to redesign social .
we have a comic to do that . we have &quot; level high &quot; for regional understanding , knowledge networking , sustainability , vision and ingenuity .
i want to invite you all to share this game with young people all over the world , especially in developing areas that benefit from imagining their own social enterprises together to save the world .
and what i got was good , but it wasn &apos;t perfect .
i &apos;m going to end now .
i want to ask you something .
what do you think happens next ?
we have all these fantastic players , we have games that show us what we can do , but we haven &apos;t saved the real world yet .
well , i hope you &apos;ll agree with me that players are human resources that we can use to work in real life , and that games have a big meaning for change .
we have all these superpowers , happy productivity , the ability to connect close social networks , urgency optimism and the desire for epic significance .
i really hope that we &apos;re playing significant games together to survive another century on this planet .
and i hope you &apos;ll design and play with me like this .
when i look forward to the next decade , i &apos;m sure in two things : that we can create any imaginable future , and that we can play all kinds of games .
so i say , let the world &apos;s changing games start !
and so i compared what i had gotten to what i expected , and what i had was disappointing compared to what i expected .
thank you .
i &apos;d like to tell you something that i noticed a few months ago writing an article for italian wired .
i &apos;ve always done my synonymous dictionary when i was writing , but i &apos;ve done the work of the text , and i realized that i &apos;ve never looked at the word &quot; disabled &quot; in my life .
i &apos;m going to read you the post .
&quot; disabled , &quot; adjectively : &quot; curved , helpless , useless , destroyed , devastated , wounded , wounded , lahm , disconnected , injured , injured , injured , injured , impotent , casted , paralyzed , paralyzed , enhandicapted senile , age-weak , pulled out of traffic , removed , done , broken , abandoned , abused and weak .
antonym : healthy , strong , powerful . &quot;
i read this list to a friend loud , and i had to laugh at the first time , it was so ridiculous , but i just came to &quot; oriented , &quot; and i couldn &apos;t go on , and i had to stop reading , and i had to start collecting myself after this sort of random word tide and the interconnected emotional shock .
of course , this was a balanced , old synonymous dictionary , and i just thought that the copy had to be pretty old .
but in fact , it was a copy in the early &apos; 80s , when i was starting with elementary school , and i started building and forming my self-image outside my family environment , in terms of other kids and the rest of the world around me .
and thank god i didn &apos;t use synonymous dictionary at the time .
they just listen and then they start talking .
adding opportunities into people &apos;s lives , inevitably , the expectations people have about how good these possibilities are going to be .
if i were to take this post seriously , i would be born into a world that someone like me would perceive as a person whose life can &apos;t be positive in any way , but today i will celebrate for the odds and adventures that i &apos;ve experienced .
so i immediately called up the online issue of 2009 , and i expect to find a more appealing contribution here .
here &apos;s the updated version of this entry .
unfortunately , it &apos;s not much better .
in particular , the last two words under near antonyms shock me &quot; all &quot; and &quot; healthy . &quot;
but it &apos;s not just about the words .
it &apos;s about what we think about the people we describe with these words .
it &apos;s about the values that are in these words , and how we construct these values .
our language affects our thinking and how we see the world and the people around us .
many ancient societies , including the greeks and the roman , have really believed that the language of a flight has a great force , because what you &apos;re talking about can manifest itself .
and this leads to less satisfaction with the results , even though the results are good .
so , what do we really want to manifest -- a disabled person or a powerful person ?
just to call a human being mindlessly as a child , could be enough to limit them and to overcome them with ideas .
wouldn &apos;t it be more beautiful to open you doors ?
a human who opened doors for me was my pediatrician at the a.i. dupont institute in wilmington in delaware .
it &apos;s called dr. pizzutillo . a italo american whose name , as you can imagine , most americans couldn &apos;t speak correctly , so he was always called dr. p. .
and dr. p. always wore very colorful flies and was just created for the work with kids .
i found the time i spent in this hospital , just great -- except for my physiotherapy .
i had to seemingly repeat individual exercises with these thick , elastic bands -- in different colors -- they know that to build my leg muscles , and i hated these bands more than anything else . i hated them . i flooded them . i hated them .
and imagine i &apos;ve even negotiated with dr. p. as a five-year-old , and tried to stop these practices , naturally without success .
and one day he was watching me in one of my practices -- these practices were just tiring and graceful -- and he said to me , &quot; wow , aimee , you &apos;re such a strong , powerful and young girl , you &apos;re going to tear one day one of these bars .
no one in the world of marketing knows this , because , if you did , you all don &apos;t know what this is about .
and if you do it , i &apos;ll give you a hundred dollars . &quot;
this was , of course , just a simple trick by dr. p. , so that i do the practices that i didn &apos;t want to do , with the prospect that the richest five year-old girls in the hospital are going to be in the second floor , but he actually got me to see my daily practice horror with new eyes , so it became a new and promising experience .
and i wonder today how much of his vision of me as a strong and powerful young girl shaped my self-image , and i could imagine myself as a nature of strong , powerful and atlethal human being .
this is just one example of how adults in power positions can stimulate the imagination of a child .
but like the already quoted examples of synonymous dictionaries , our language doesn &apos;t allow us to imagine what we would all want : to allow each and every one to see themselves as powerful people .
our language backs the social change that was triggered in many cases by a technological change .
of course , from the medical point of view , you can say that my legs , the laser surgery for visually impaired , knee joints of titan and artificial hip joints for aging bodies that allow people to really use all of their possibilities , and to develop beyond the limits that their natural destiny has set them , not to speak of social networking platforms , to allow people to have their own identity , to define themselves in their own way , and to orient themselves around the world to groups that they choose themselves .
so maybe this technological change is more clear than ever , that there &apos;s always been a different truth , which is that every human being can give something special and very powerful to society , and that the human ability to adapt is our biggest plus .
the human ability to adapt -- this is an interesting story , because people are always asking me to tell you about how i deal with viability , and i &apos;m going to tell you something : this sentence has never adapted for me , and i &apos;ve always felt very uncomfortable with answering the questions of people , and i think , gradually , i understand why .
this phrase of dealing with viability lives on the idea that success or happiness depends on mastering a challenge without being shaped by the associated experience , as if my life had been so successful , because i could avoid the potential fall of a life with a prosthetic , or whatever people perceive me with my disability .
the truth is more like this .
but the truth is that we are changing . of course , we are shaped by the challenge , whether it &apos;s physical , emotional or even both .
and i &apos;m saying that &apos;s good .
viability is not an obstacle that we need to curve in order to deal with our lives better .
wishes are just part of our lives .
and i tend to see vitality as my shadow .
sometimes i realize that he &apos;s very present , sometimes he &apos;s hardly seen , but he &apos;s constantly with me .
and i don &apos;t want to have the impact , or the severe of the fight of a human .
there are functions and challenges in life , and they &apos;re just too real , and each person is going to deal with it differently , but the question is not whether we can deal with viability or not , but how we can deal with it .
so not only are we responsible for preserving the people that we love from fatalities , but also preparing them to come well with it .
and we don &apos;t prove to our kids if we give them the sense that they can &apos;t adapt .
the reason is that it used to be better than anything was worse than anything was , it was possible for the people to have experiences that were a pleasant surprise .
you have to separate two things clearly : one , the medical fact , to be amputated and to the other , the social opinion of whether i &apos;m disabled or not .
and to be honest , the only real and remaining disability that i had to deal with is that the world is constantly meant to be able to describe me with these definitions .
in our desire to protect the people we care about , and to tell them the cold , hard truth about their medical prediction , or even to prognosis for quality of life that they expect , we need to pay attention that we don &apos;t have to put the ground for someone to actually be disabled .
maybe the current concept that &apos;s just paying attention to what &apos;s in a broken , and how we fix it , for each one , is a greater disability than the pathology itself .
if we don &apos;t treat a human being at all , and not perceive all its forces and possibilities and acknowledge , in addition to the natural struggle that you might have to have , we create another disease .
we degrade a human worth of value for our society .
so we have to look beyond the patology and focus on all the domain of human possibilities .
but most important , though , is that between the perception of our inadequacy and our great invention , there is a connection .
we should not evaluate or deny these challenging times , we should not try to avoid them , nor should we return them under the carpet , but it &apos;s about recognizing opportunities in the viability .
i may be more interested in realizing that we don &apos;t necessarily have to overcome functions , but that we are open to hugging them , to put them on the shelf , to use a fight expression , and maybe even dance with it .
today , in the world we live in -- we are wealthy , industrialized citizens , with perfection as an expectation -- the best thing to ever hope for is that things are as good as you expect them to be .
and we may be able to see vienna as something natural , coherent and useful , and feel so disgusted by their presence .
this year , we celebrate the 200th anniversary of charles darwin , and when he wrote about evolution 150 years ago , darwin , in my view , pointed out something very true in human character .
i would rewrite it this way : not the most powerful of its kind , and not the most intelligent of its kind , but the one that can best adapt to change .
conflicts create creativity .
not only from darwin &apos;s work do we know that the human ability to survive and flourish is determined by the fight of the human mind to turn through conflicts .
so , again , change and adaptation are the greatest skills of man .
and maybe we don &apos;t know what wood we &apos;re cut out of when we &apos;re really tested .
maybe that &apos;s exactly what the sense of kindness , the perception of the i.e. , is a sense of our own power .
we can give ourselves something like this .
we can make a new meaning that goes beyond difficult times .
they &apos;re never going to be pleasant because their expectations , my expectations , are homegrown .
maybe we can see viability as a change .
viability is a change that we haven &apos;t yet adapted to .
i think the biggest damage we &apos;ve harmed ourselves is to believe that we should be normal .
let &apos;s face it -- who &apos;s normal ?
there is no normal .
there &apos;s the usual . the typical , but not the normal , and would you really want to know this poor , gray person if they really existed ?
i don &apos;t think so .
it would be great if we could exchange this paradigm of normality to another possibility or strength , to even make it a little bit more dangerous , so we can release the forces of very many children , and invite them to bring their special and valuable skills into society .
anthropolgen has found that we &apos;ve always asked people from the members of our society to be useful and to contribute .
there &apos;s evidence that the neanderthals , 60,000 years ago , have been carrying older people and people with severe physical injury , and that might be because the life experience in these people &apos;s survival was valuable for society .
the secret to happiness -- that &apos;s what you &apos;ve all come to -- the secret to happiness is low expectations .
they didn &apos;t think of these people as broken and useless ; they were treated as something special and valuable .
a few years ago , i went to the city where i grew up to a food market in this red zone in the northeast of pennsylvania , and i was standing there in front of a seffel tomato .
it was summer , and i had shorts .
and i hear a guy behind me say , &quot; well , if that &apos;s not aimee mullins . &quot;
and i turn around and i see this older man . i had no idea who he is .
and i said , &quot; excuse me , sir , do we know ? i can &apos;t remember you . &quot;
and he said , &quot; well , you can &apos;t remember me .
when i first saw her , i took her out of her belly . &quot;
oh , so that one .
and of course , it made a click .
i want to say -- a short autobiographical moment -- that i &apos;m married to a woman , and she &apos;s really wonderful .
this was dr. kean , a man who i only knew from my mother &apos;s narratives about this day , because , of course , i was very typical , to my birthday , i was too late for two weeks .
my mother &apos;s doctor for prenatal diagnostics was on vacation , and so my parents didn &apos;t know the man who brought me to the world at all .
and because i was born without legs , and my feet had been looking for them , and i had only a few toes on this and a few toes on the other foot , he was the overhead , this stranger had to overcome the bad news .
he said to me , &quot; i had to tell your parents that you would never walk , and never be as moving as other kids , or that you could never live an independent life , and since then , they just punished me . &quot;
what was really extraordinary to me was that he had collected newspaper clips of my entire childhood , whether i had won a letter competition in the second grade , whether i was with the peer finders at the parade , whether i had my scholarship or one of my athletic victories , and he was using these cuts to teach his students , medical students from the hahnemann medical school and the hershey medical school .
and he called this part of his course the x factor , the potential of the human will .
you can &apos;t just emphasize how important this factor can be to the quality of a person &apos;s life .
and dr. kean told me , he said , &quot; i learned that kids , if they don &apos;t always get said anything else , and even if they get a little bit of support , if you leave kids alone , then kids can do a lot of things . &quot;
see , dr. kean has changed his thinking .
he had understood that the medical diagnosis , and how someone is dealing with it , are two different things .
i couldn &apos;t have done it better . i didn &apos;t leave myself .
and i also changed my thinking over time , if you had asked me at the age of 15 , whether i would have swapped my prosthetic legs of meat and bones , i wouldn &apos;t have delayed a second .
i really wanted to be normal at the time .
if you ask me that today , i &apos;m not so sure .
and this is because i &apos;ve experienced something with my legs , and not in spite of these experiences .
and maybe that change could happen because i &apos;ve encountered so many people who have opened doors to me , rather than encountering people who restrict me , or wanted to overcome me an idea .
you see , it really only takes one person to demonstrate to you how to manifest their forces , and they &apos;re through .
if you allow someone to activate their own internal forces -- the human mind is so recommended -- if you can do that , and you can open a door for someone in a critical moment , then you &apos;re a very good teacher for these people .
they teach them to open themselves doors .
the real meaning of the word educate is rooted in the word educe .
it means to produce something that is in one , to tickle out the potential .
or , one of the most fascinating tribes that i &apos;ve ever lived with , the waorani in the northeast of ecuador , an amazing people who was first peaceful in 1958 .
but abandoning is not always such a bad thing .
again , what potential do we want to call out ?
in the &apos; 60s , a case study was done in the u.k. , and then gymnasia was transformed into overall schools .
they call this &quot; streaming trials &quot; in the united states , we call this &quot; tracking . &quot;
the students are divided by notes .
and the a student is tirelessly tested , gets the better teachers and so on .
they then gave students over a three-month period of time with a &quot; sufficient &quot; the note &quot; very good , &quot; and they told them that they were very smart , and after these three months , they wrote really lonely .
and of course , it crashes you to hear the heart , that in reverse , the one-on-one students were told they were just sufficient .
and it was the same after the three months .
but only those who were still in school -- besides the students who had thrown the school .
and the crucial thing about this study was that the teachers were not inferred .
finally , a consequence of buying a bad sitting jean , if there &apos;s only one way to buy , is that if you &apos;re unsatisfied , and you wonder why , who is responsible , the answer is clear . the world is responsible . what could you have done ?
the teachers didn &apos;t know that something was changed .
they were simply told that these are the one-year-olds , and these are the students with the grade enough , and in the same way , they have taught them something and treated them .
the only real disability is a broken mind that has been broken , has no hope anymore , and he finds nothing beautiful , and he lacks our natural , child-like curiosity , and our innate ability of imagination .
but if we &apos;re able to support the human mind , to continue to hope , to find ourselves and other people around them beautiful , to be curious and imaginative , then we really put our forces in a positive way .
if a mind has these qualities , we can create a new reality and a new form of existence .
i want to end with a poem written by a persian poet called hafiz in the 14th century , and that my friend jacques dembois told me about . and the poem is called &quot; the god who only knows four words . &quot; &quot; every child knows god , not the god of the name , not the god of the commandments , but the god who only knows four words and repeats them all the time , he just says , &quot; come on , dance with me . &quot;
come on , dance with me . thank you very much .
how would you like to be better than you are right now ?
suppose i said that , through a few changes in your genes , you could have a better memory -- more precise , more precise and faster .
or do you want to be fitter , stronger , have more power .
if hundreds of different kinds of jeans are available , and they buy one that &apos;s disappointing , and they ask , why , who is responsible ?
do you want to become more attractive and more confident ?
what would it be like to live longer in good health ?
or maybe you &apos;re one of those who &apos;s been looking for more creativity .
which one would you like the most ?
which one would you like to have if you could only have one ?
creativity .
how many people would choose creativity ?
raise your hands . let me see .
a few . probably about as many as there are creative people here .
that &apos;s very good .
it &apos;s as clear that the answer to the question is , you .
how many would choose to have a good memory ?
a few more .
how about fitness ?
a few less .
what about longevity ?
ah , the majority . i like to see that as a doctor .
if you could only have one of them , it would be a very different world .
is this all just education ?
or is it possible ?
evolution has been an ongoing topic here at the ted conference , but today i want to give you a doctor &apos;s view of the subject .
they could have done better .
the great geneticist in the 20th century , t.g. dobzhansky , who was also a communicator in the russian orthodox church , once wrote a paper called &quot; nothing in biology doesn &apos;t make sense except in the light of evolution . &quot;
now , if you &apos;re one of those who doesn &apos;t accept the evidence of biological evolution , that would be a very good time to turn out your hearing device , take your personal communication device -- i &apos;ll give you permission -- and maybe you can take a look at kathryn schultz &apos;s book , which is about being wrong , because nothing else in this talk will make any sense of you .
but if you accept biological evolution , consider this : is it just about the past , or is it about the future ?
is it fun for others , or is it affecting us ?
this is another look at the tree of life .
in this picture , i &apos;ve put a bush as a center of branches in all directions , because if you look at the edges of the tree of life , all the species that exist at the top of these branches have succeeded in evolutionary terms , they have survived ; it has demonstrated fitness and strength in its environment .
the human part of this book , far at the end , is , of course , what we &apos;re most interested in .
we branch from a common ancestor to modern chimpanzees about six or eight million years ago .
in this period of time , there may be 20 or 25 different species of hominids .
some of them have come and gone .
with 100 different kinds of jeans in the window , there &apos;s no excuse for mistakes .
we &apos;ve been here for about 130,000 years .
it seems like we are quite remote from the other parts of the tree of life , but in fact , most of the time , the fundamental mechanisms of our cells are pretty much the same .
do you realize that we can use it , and we can use the mechanisms of a common bacterium to produce the protein of human insulin , which is used to treat diabetics ?
this is not like humaninsulin ; this is the same protein that &apos;s chemically undifferentiable from what comes out of the pancreas .
and as we talk about bacteria , do you realize that every one of us in our gut has more bacteria than it leads cells in the rest of our body ?
maybe 10 times as many .
i mean , do you think when antonio damasio asks for your self-image , do you think about the bacteria ?
our gut is a wonderfully hospitable environment for these bacteria .
it &apos;s warm , it &apos;s dark , it &apos;s wet , it &apos;s very comfortable .
and you &apos;re going to offer them all the nutrients that they could only want without any effort at all .
and so , when people make decisions , and even though the results of decisions are good , they feel disappointed about it , they accuse themselves .
it &apos;s a really easy way for bacteria , with occasional interruptions of the unintended , jeodch to take off .
but otherwise , they &apos;re a wonderful environment for these bacteria , just as important for their lives .
they &apos;re helping to digestive nutrients , and they &apos;re protecting them against certain diseases .
but what &apos;s going to happen in the future ?
are we in a kind of evolutionary equilibrium in the form of a species ?
or are we going to be something else -- something that might even be better adapted to the environment ?
now let &apos;s take a step back to the time of the big bang 14 trillion years ago -- the earth , the solar system , about four and a half billion years ago -- the first signs of living things , maybe three to four billion years ago on earth -- the first multi-cellular organisms , perhaps so much as 800 or a billion years ago -- and then the human species that are ultimately forming in the last 130,000 years .
in this vast unfinished symphony of the universe , life on earth is just briefly measured ; the animal kingdom , like a single tank ; and human life , a small notation .
that &apos;s us .
this also represents the entertainment value of this talk , so i hope you &apos;ve enjoyed it .
clinical depression exploded in the industrial world in the last generation .
now , when i was a neuling in college , i had my first biology class .
i was fascinated by the elegance and beauty of biology .
i fell in love with the power of evolution , and i realized something very fundamental : most of the life &apos;s existence in individual organisms , each cell divides , and all the genetic information of the cell is carried on in both of the daughter cells .
but at that time , when multi-celled organisms appeared , things started to change .
sexual reproduction is coming into the picture .
and most importantly , with the introduction of sexual reproduction that the genome continues , the rest of the body becomes decent .
in fact , you could say that the inevitability of death of our bodies is in the same moment as the sexual reproduction .
now i have to say , if i was a college student , i thought , okay , sex / death , sex / death , death for sex -- it seemed pretty reasonable at the time , but with every year , it &apos;s come to my increasingly doubt .
i &apos;ve come to understand the feelings of george burns , who introduced his show in las vegas in the &apos; 90s .
and one night , there &apos;s a pat on his hotel door .
i think a significant -- not the only one , but a significant contributor to this explosion of depression , and also suicide , is that people have experienced disappointing because their standards are so high , and then , if you have to explain these experiences , think it would be your fault .
he opens the door .
in front of him , there &apos;s a beautiful splendid showgirl .
she looks at him and says , &quot; i &apos;m here for super-sex . &quot;
&quot; that &apos;s wonderful , &quot; says george , &quot; i will take the soup . &quot;
i came to the realization as a doctor that i was working on a goal that was different from the goal of evolution -- not necessarily contradictory , just different .
i tried to preserve the body .
i wanted to keep us healthy .
i wanted to restore the health of a disease .
i wanted us to live a long and healthy life .
evolution is all about the passing of the genome to the next generation , adaptation and survival after generation .
and so the imaging result is that we &apos;re generally doing better , objective , and we &apos;re feeling worse .
from an evolutionary standpoint , they and i have evolved like boster rockets to send the genetic questioning to the next level of the orbit , and then fall into the sea .
i think we would all understand the mood that woody allen expressed when he said , &quot; i don &apos;t want to achieve immortality through my work .
i want to do it by not dying . &quot;
evolution doesn &apos;t necessarily mean to prefer the longest life .
it doesn &apos;t necessarily prioritize the biggest , the strongest , or the fastest , and not even the smartest .
evolution primates the creatures that are best adapted to their environment .
it &apos;s only the test of survival and success .
on the bottom of the ocean , there are bacteria that are thermophil , and by making the hot vapor survive otherwise , if fish were there , it would have a vacuum of cook fish , yet they managed to make a habitable environment for themselves .
so , what does that mean when we look back at what &apos;s going on in evolution , and how we think about the place of people in evolution , and particularly how we look forward to the next phase , i would say that there are a number of possibilities .
the first is that we &apos;re not going to evolve .
in 1957 , five missionary contact tried and made a severe mistake .
so let me remind you .
we &apos;ve achieved a kind of balance .
and the reasons for that would be that , first of all , we were able to get a lot of genes that would have otherwise been selected and removed from the population .
and secondly , as a species , we &apos;ve been so configuring our environment that we &apos;ve been able to do it , that they adapt to us , and we adapt to them .
and by the way , we &apos;re wandering and circulating and mixing so much that they can no longer say that isolation is necessary for evolution to find status .
a second possibility is that it will be an evolution of traditional species , of course , imposed by the forces of nature .
and the argument here would be that the wheels of evolution are slowly grueling , but they &apos;re unquestionable .
and as far as the isolation goes , as a species , as a distant planet , there will be isolation and the changes in the environment that evolution could produce in a natural way .
but there &apos;s a third possibility , a tempting , fascinating and terrifying possibility .
i call it neo-evolution -- the new development that &apos;s not just natural , but led and decided to be individual in the decisions that we make .
now , how could this happen ?
this is the official dogma that we all think is right is completely wrong . it &apos;s not true .
how could it be possible that we do this ?
let &apos;s start by looking at the reality that people today , in some cultures , make decisions about their offspring .
they are , in some cultures , the choice to have more men than women .
it &apos;s not necessarily good for society , but it &apos;s what the individual and the family decide .
so think , if it &apos;s not only possible to choose the gender of your child , but also to do genetic adaptations on your body , to heal and prevent the disease .
what if you could make the genetic changes to eliminate diabetes or alzheimer &apos;s , or reduce the risk of cancer or the stroke ?
wouldn &apos;t you want to make these changes in your genes ?
if we look ahead , these kinds of changes will be increasingly possible .
the human genome project started in 1990 , and it took 13 years .
it cost 2.7 billion dollars .
there &apos;s no question that &apos;s a little better than no choice , but it doesn &apos;t follow any more choice than something choice .
next year , when it was done in 2004 , they could do the same thing for 20 million dollars in penetra to four months .
today , you can complete a sequence of the three billion base pairs of the human genome at a price of about 20,000 and in the space of about a week .
it &apos;s not going to take long for the reality to be that there &apos;s going to be 1,000 dollars of human genomes , and it &apos;s going to be more and more available for everybody .
a week ago , the national academy of engineering gave the draper prize for francis arnold and willem stemmer , two scientists who developed independent techniques that encourage the natural process of evolution to work faster and lead to desirable proteins in a more efficient way -- what frances arnold calls &quot; direct evolution . &quot;
a few years ago , the laser prize was awarded to the scientist shinya yamanaka for his research in which he took a adult skin cell , a fibroblaste , and by manipulating just four genes , the cell induced to take them back to a pluripotent stem cell -- a cell potentially is able to become any cell in your body .
these changes are coming .
the same technology that the human insulin can produce in bacteria can make viruses that can serve not only protection from itself , but also for immunity to other viruses .
believe it or not , it &apos;s an experimental study in the gang with vaccine against influenza that &apos;s been grown in the cells of a tobacco plant .
can you imagine something good that comes from tobacco ?
this is all reality today , and in the future , much more will be possible .
there &apos;s a magical amount . i don &apos;t know what it is .
so imagine just two other small changes .
you can change the cells in your body , but what if you could change the cells of your descendants ?
what if you could change the sperm and the iron cells or the newly fertilized egg to give your kids a better chance for a healthier life -- eliminating diabetes , removing the hemophilia , reducing the risk of cancer ?
who doesn &apos;t want healthier children ?
and then the analytical technology , the same engine of science that can allow the change to prevent disease , could also allow us to adopt super-attributes , hyper-capacity -- the better memory .
why don &apos;t the power of a ken jennings hben , especially if you can expand it with the next generation of the watson machine ?
why not have the fast muscle fibers that will allow them to run faster and longer ?
why no longer live ?
these will be irresistible .
and if we &apos;re at a point where we can pass it on to the next generation , and we can adopt the attributes that we want , we will be transformed from alt-style evolution to neo-evolution .
i &apos;m pretty sure that we &apos;ve missed this point for a long time in the selection of our public good .
we &apos;re going to have a process that &apos;s usually going to take perhaps 100,000 years , and we can compress it to a thousand years -- and maybe even to the next 100 years .
these are decisions that your grandchildren have to deal with , or your grandchildren .
do we use these decisions to form a society that &apos;s better , that &apos;s more successful , that &apos;s more friendly ?
or will we selectively choose different attributes that we want to have for some of us and not for others ?
are we going to form a society that is more diverse and more uniform , or more robust and more multi-page ?
these are the kinds of questions that we need to meet .
and the deepest of all , are we ever going to be able to develop the wisdom , and the wisdom that we &apos;re going to need to make these decisions wise ?
in the good and in the bad , and sooner than you might think , these decisions are going to be on us .
thank you .
i want you to imagine something now , a portable robot that gives you a human ability , or another , that helps wheelchair users get back up and go .
now , as a basic question -- i &apos;m almost done -- as a basic question , which is to think about this . what enables all these choices in the industrialized societies is the material wealth .
we at berkeley bionics call these robots exoskeletons .
they &apos;re nothing but something that they &apos;re doing in the morning that will give them extra strength and will further increase their speed and will help them keep their balance .
this is actually the real merger of human and machine .
but not only that -- they merge and connect with the universe and other devices out there .
it &apos;s not just a crazy idea .
now to show you what we &apos;re working on , we &apos;re starting to talk about the american soldier , who , on average , carries about 100 pounds on his back , and it &apos;s the request for you to wear more equipment .
of course , this leads to some major complications -- back injury , 30 percent of them -- chronic back injury .
so we thought that we would take this challenge and create an exoskeleton that would help deal with this problem .
so let me introduce you to hulc now -- or the human universal load carrier .
soldat : with the hulc exoskeleton , i can carry 200 pounds over different terrain for many hours .
there are many places in the world , and we &apos;ve heard about many of them , whose problem is not the too big choice .
his flexible design enables you to go deep , to crawl and to do extremely agile movements .
it feels what i want to do , where i want to go and then increase my strength and resilience .
we &apos;re here to introduce with our industrial partner to this device , this new exoskeleton that year .
so it &apos;s true .
let &apos;s take a look at the wheelchair drivers , something that i &apos;m particularly passionate about .
there are 68 million people sitting in the wheelchair around the world .
that &apos;s about one percent of the population .
and this is actually a conservative estimate .
we &apos;re often talking about very young people with spinal cord injury that were hit in the flowering time of their lives -- 20s , 30s , 40s -- by destiny , and the wheelchair is the only option .
but it &apos;s also about the aging population whose number multiplies .
their problem is that they have too little .
and pretty much the only option -- when it comes to a brainbeat , or other complications -- is the wheelchair .
and so , by the way , it &apos;s been 500 years since , as i have to say , it &apos;s been very successful introduction .
so we thought that we could start writing a whole new chapter in mobility .
now let me introduce you to elegs , which is carried by amanda boxtel , who suffered a spinal cord injury 19 years ago , which has concluded that she could no longer run for 19 years and so far .
thank you .
as i said , amanda carries our elegs .
it has sensors .
his completely non-invasive sensors in the crutches that send back signals to our onboarding computer , which is attached here on your back .
here are also battery packages , the engine is on their hips , as well as on their knee joints that they move forward in this rather smooth and very natural gait .
i was 24 years old , and in the best form , as a monstrous pure tree , as a ski trip paralyzed me .
so the things i &apos;m talking about are a strange problem of modern , rich , western societies .
in a fraction of a second , i lost every feeling and every movement below my basin .
not long after that , a doctor went to my hospital room , and he said , &quot; amanda , you &apos;ll never go again . &quot;
and that was 19 years ago .
he steel every five hopes from my consciousness .
adaptive technologies have since then enabled me to learn , ski again , climb and even drive with my hands wheel .
but nothing was invented that would let me go again , so far .
thank you .
as you can see , we have the technology , we have the platforms to meet and discuss with them .
it &apos;s in our hands , and we have all the potential here to change the lives of future generations -- not just for the soldiers , or for amanda here and all the wheelchair users , but for everyone .
thank you .
and what &apos;s so frustrating and so angry is , steve levitt told you yesterday about how these expensive and hard to install car seats don &apos;t help . it &apos;s a waste of money .
at home in new york , i &apos;m the head of the development department of a nonprofit organization called robin hood .
if i &apos;m not fighting poverty , i &apos;m fighting to help a fireman with a volunteer delay of fire .
now , in our city , where volunteers were supporting a high-skill professional fire department , you have to be pretty early on in the brands to be able to mix .
i remember my first fire .
i was the second volunteer at the brand site , so i had a pretty good chance of getting in .
but it was still a race against the other volunteers to reach the responsible main man and figure out what our assignments would be .
when i found the main man , he had just had a very serious conversation with the homeowner who certainly had one of the worst days of her life .
it was in the middle of the night , and she was standing in the sleeping train and barefoot under a screen out in the streaming rain while her house was in flames .
the other volunteer who had arrived just before me -- call him lex luther -- reached the main man first and was asked to go to the house and save the owner &apos;s dog .
the dog ! i was linguistic .
they took shiny photos of themselves from the air , which we would rate as friendly gestures , and they forgot that these people from the rainforest in their lives had never seen anything two-dimensional .
what i &apos;m telling you is that these expensive , complicated decisions -- it &apos;s not easy that you don &apos;t help .
there was some lawyer , or there was a wealth manager , who could now tell people that he went to a burning house to save a living thing , just because he was five seconds faster than me .
well , i was the next .
the main man was waving me .
he said , &quot; bezos , you have to go to the house .
you &apos;ve got to go up , you &apos;ve got to go by the fire , and this woman &apos;s got to get some shoes . &quot;
i swear it .
now , not exactly what i was hoping for , but i went -- the stairs up , down the hallway , over the &quot; real &quot; firemen , who were pretty much done with the deletion at that point , to get some shoes in the bedroom .
i know what you &apos;re thinking , but i &apos;m not a hero .
i carried my prey back to the bottom , where i met my enemy at the front door and the beloved dog .
we took our estimates out to the homeowner , where , not surprisingly , he got a lot more attention than mine .
they even hurt .
a few weeks later , the fire guards got a letter from the homeowner , where they were in charge of the brave use of the rescue of their house .
one of the things that &apos;s been proven to be kindness : somebody had actually brought her a few shoes .
both in my profession at robin hood and in my side profession as a volunteer fireman , i &apos;m witnessed by generosity and kindness at a large scale , but i also see the actions of philanthropy and the courage of individuals .
and you know what i learned ?
they &apos;re all important .
so when i look around this room and i see people who have either achieved a remarkable success , or are on their way there , i want to remind you this : don &apos;t wait .
don &apos;t wait to make a difference in someone else &apos;s life until they &apos;ve reached their first million .
if you have something to give , now you give it .
use it in a soup kitchen , clean up a park in the neighborhood .
be a mentor .
they make us feel worse about it .
not every day will give us a chance to save a person &apos;s life , but every day it will give us a chance to change one .
so get rid of it ; save the shoes .
thank you .
bruno guissani : mark , mark , come back .
thank you .
i &apos;m coming back from a community that knows the secret to the continuity of humanity .
a place where women lead the ceptor , with sex saying hello , and the game determines the day -- where fun is a serious issue .
and no , it &apos;s not burning man or san francisco .
ladies and gentlemen , their relatives .
this is the world of the wild bonobos in the congo forest .
if one of the things that enables people to make decisions in our society to the societies where people have shifted too little choice , not only would the lives of people be improved , but our dignity would also be improved .
bonobos are our closest living relatives with chimpanzees .
that means we have a common ancestor , an evolutionary grandmother who lived about six million years ago .
well , chimpanzees are known for their aggression .
but unfortunately , we have overstated this aspect in the narrative of human evolution .
but bonobos : the other side of the medal
while chimpanzees are led by big , frightening guys , the bonobo society is led by empowered females .
they really came up with something , because this leads to a very tolerant society , where deadly violence has not been seen yet .
but unfortunately , bonobos are least known among the primates .
they live in the depths of the congolese primeval forest , and they &apos;re very difficult to see .
congo is a paradox -- a country of extraordinary biodiversity and beauty , but also the heart of darkness itself -- the scene of a violent argument that has been angry for decades , and almost as many lives as the first world war .
economists call this a pareto improvement rate .
it &apos;s not surprising that this destruction is also threatening the survival of the bonobos .
meat trade and the decrease of the tree is that you can &apos;t even fill a stadium with the bonobos that are left -- and even there we are not sure to be honest .
and yet , in this country of violence and chaos , you can hear a hidden laugh that the trees are shattering .
who are these relatives ?
we know them as &quot; love instead of war &quot; monkeys , because they have frequent sex , also bisexual sex , with changing partners , and rules so conflicts and social issues .
i &apos;m not saying that this is the answer to all humanitarian problems -- because the life of the bonobos is more than the kama sutra .
bonobos -- like people -- love to play their lives .
play is not just child games .
for us and it &apos;s a game that is fundamental to the attachment of relationships and the care of tolerance .
and we learn trust and the rules of the game .
income distribution is going to make everybody do better -- not just the poor -- because all this big choice is going to get us .
play is increasing creativity and resilience , and it &apos;s all about the creation of diversity -- diversity of interactions , diversity of behaviors , diversity of connections .
and if you watch bonobos play , you see the evolutionary origins of human salmon , dance and rituals .
play is the tickle that keeps us together .
now , i don &apos;t know how they play , but i want to show you some unique footage from the wild .
first of all , a ball game in bonobo -- and i don &apos;t think of football .
so here we see a young female and male in a tracking game .
look at what it does .
this could be the evolutionary origin of , &quot; she grabs it in the eggs . &quot;
just that i think he likes it more , right ?
yeah !
finally , please read this cartoon , and , a highly developed person , says , &quot; ah ! what does this fish know ?
so sex games are common , both in bonobos and in humans .
and this video is really interesting , because it shows -- and this video is really interesting , because it shows the ideal wealth of bringing new elements into the game -- like the testicles -- and also how the game is both demanding and promoting trust -- while it &apos;s simultaneously immense fun .
but the game is a shape-shifter .
play is a shape-shifter , and it can take a lot of forms that are a little bit quieter , imaginative , curious -- maybe to rediscover the astonishing .
and i want to show you , this is fuku , a young female , and she plays peaceful with water .
i think , just like they , we sometimes play alone , and we expose the limits of our inner and external worlds .
and it &apos;s this playful curiosity that lets us explore and interact , and the unexpected connections that we create are the real nutrients of creativity .
this is just a taste of the insights that bonobos give us in our past and present .
but they also preserve a secret to our future , a future in which we need to adapt to increasing challenges , through greater creativity and printing , cooperation .
the secret is that the game is the key to these skills .
you don &apos;t know anything possible in this goldfish glass . &quot;
in other words , play is our adaptation joker .
in order to successfully adapt to a world of inconsistency , we have to play .
but are we going to make the best of our play drive ?
play is not silly .
it &apos;s essential .
for bonobos and people the same way , life is not made of teeth and claws alone .
even if it doesn &apos;t seem to be appropriate , maybe it &apos;s most necessary .
and so , my primate teammates , let &apos;s hug and play this gift of evolution together , while we &apos;re rediscovering the creativity of the camera and the wonder .
thank you .
i want you to imagine two pairs in the middle of 1979 , exactly the same day , exactly the same moment , every baby -- okay .
armed imagination , a short-sighted view of the world -- and that &apos;s the way i first read it .
so two pairs , every single baby .
now , i don &apos;t want you to spend too much time imagining the creation , because if you imagine all the time , you won &apos;t listen to me .
just imagine for a moment .
and in this scenario , imagine that in one case , the sperm is wearing an y chomosom that hits the x chromosome of the egg cell .
and in the other case , the sperm carries a x chromosome that hits the x chromosome of the egg cell .
both are survivable , both inflammatory .
we &apos;re still coming back to these people later .
in most of my activities , i have two hats .
under a hat , i &apos;m involved in the history of anatomy .
i &apos;m a historian , and in this case , i study how people were dealing with anatomy -- which is human bodies , animal bodies -- how they were dealing with body fluids , with body concepts , how they thought about bodies .
but the more i thought about it , the more i came to the view that the fish knows something .
the other hat that i &apos;ve been wearing in my work is the activist , as a patient lawyer -- or , as i sometimes say , as an impatient lawyer -- of people who are patients of doctors .
in this case , i &apos;ve been working with people who have body types who are challenging social norms .
so for example , i worked with people who are siamesian twins , two people in a body .
i worked with people with dwarfs -- so people who were smaller than usual .
and very often , i worked with intersexual people whose gender is atypical -- so people who don &apos;t have the average male or female body types .
and as a general term , we can use the word intersexuality .
intersexuality is in many different forms .
i &apos;ll just give you a few examples of the potential types of sexual variants that don &apos;t correspond to the male or female standard .
in one case , you might have someone with a xy chromosome base , and the sry gene of the y chomosoms is the protogonads that we all have , you know , fetal stage , all grow up to testicles .
and that &apos;s why the testosterone is abandoned in the fetal stage .
they lifted these photographs from the forest floor , tried to see behind the face or the character , found nothing and concluded that these were business cards of the devil and killed the five missionaries with the spear .
because the truth is that if you break the goldfish glass , so that everything is possible , you don &apos;t have freedom . you have paralysis .
but because this individual is missing the receptors to recognize the testosterone , the body doesn &apos;t respond to the testosterone .
and this is called androgen-receptor defect .
so a lot of testosterone , but no reaction to it .
as a consequence , the body develops more of the typical female course .
when the child is born , she looks like a girl .
she &apos;s a girl . she &apos;s raised as a girl .
but it takes most of the time for you to reach puberty and grow your breasts and develop , but you don &apos;t get your period until someone gets to the point that there &apos;s something different here .
and they do some tests , and they find that instead of having ovarian sticks and uterus , they actually have testicles and she has an y chromosome .
and it &apos;s important to understand that you could actually think that person is male , but they &apos;re not really .
women , like men , have something in our bodies called adrenaline glands .
if you break the goldfish glass , so that everything is possible , you reduce happiness .
they &apos;re in the back of our bodies .
and the ones on the side make androgens , which are virifying hormones .
most women , as i do -- i think i &apos;m a typical woman -- i don &apos;t know my actual chromosome , but i think i probably have the typical -- most women like me are actually talking about androgens .
we &apos;re producing androgen , and we &apos;re talking about androgens .
the consequence is that someone like me actually has a brain that was exposed to more androgens than a woman who was born with testicles and has an androgenic receptor defect .
so gender is really complicated ; intersexuals are not just in the middle of the spectrum of gender -- in a sense , they can be distributed throughout the bandwidth .
here &apos;s another example : a few years ago , i got a call from a 19 year-old man who was born as a boy , he had a friend , he had sex with his girlfriend , he lived as a man , and he had just figured out that he had eggs and a uterus .
he had an extreme form of an innate side cattle hyperbubble .
he has xx chromosome , and in the womb , his side kidneys were so active that they basically created a male hormone environment .
and as a consequence , his genitaly was male , his brain was exposed to the more typical male part of the hormone spectrum .
they increase the paralysis and reduce the happiness .
and when he was born , he looked like a boy -- no one knew anything .
and just when he turned 19 , he got enough medical problems , in fact , because he internally mended that the doctors found that he was female inside .
okay , just a quick example of a variation of intersexuality .
some people with xx chromosomes , they develop something called ovotestis , where ovotestis is is enveloped by hode tissue .
we don &apos;t know exactly why this is happening .
so gender can occur in many different varieties .
the reason why kids with this kind of body -- whether it was dwarf or siamesian twins , be it intersexual -- are often adapted by surgeons to the norm is not because it would be for their physical health of advantage .
in many cases , these people are completely healthy .
the reason why they often do different kinds of surgical interventions is because they threaten our social categories .
typically , our system is based on the idea that a certain anatomic leap is based on a particular identity .
everybody needs a gold fish glass .
so we have the concept that being a woman is about having a female identity ; being a black person is supposed to have an african anatomy in terms of their own history .
so we have this terribly simplistic idea .
and when we &apos;re faced with a body that actually represents something very different to us , we &apos;re confused with these categorizations .
so we have a lot of romantic ideas in our culture about individualism .
and our nation is really based on a very romantic concept of individualism .
now , you can imagine how amazing it is when children are born , who are two people in a body .
where i had experienced most of the excitement recently , the south african runner caster semenya last year , whose gender was challenged at the leichatlethic world cup in berlin .
many journalists called me the question , &quot; which test are you going to do that tells us whether caster semenya is female or male ? &quot;
and i had to explain to the journalists that there is no test .
we now know that gender is complicated enough that we have to admit that nature doesn &apos;t draw a line between male and female , or between male and interactive and female and interactive , and in fact , we are the one that pretends to be natural in that line .
this is almost confined with complete security -- possibly also for the fish , definitely for us .
so we have this kind of situation where , as we continue our science , we have to admit to the more that these categories that we thought were stable anatomic categories , which made very simple attributions to create permanent identities , are much less sharper than we thought .
and that &apos;s not just in terms of gender .
it &apos;s also true of race , which turns out to be much more complicated than our terminology has allowed .
in our views , we get into all sorts of inconvenient areas .
for example , we &apos;re looking at the fact that we share at least 95 percent of our dna with chimpanzees .
what are we going to do with the fact that we &apos;re only different from them by a few nucleotides ?
as we move our science further and further , we &apos;re getting into a zone of uncomfort , where we need to recognize that the simplistic categories that we &apos;ve had are probably too simple .
we see this in all sorts of areas of human life .
one of the areas in which we see this as the beipiel , in our culture today , in today &apos;s united states , are the battles about the beginning and the end of life .
we have difficult conversations about where a body becomes human , so that it &apos;s right other than fetal life .
but the abhanding of a metaphorical goldfish glass is a recipe for misery , and , i suspect , disaster .
we have very difficult arguments today -- maybe not as public as in medicine -- about the question of when someone is dead .
our ancestors never had that hard to fight with the question of when someone was dead .
they kept a feather under the nose , and when it moved , they haven &apos;t buried it yet .
if it didn &apos;t move , you &apos;d dig it .
but today , we are in a situation where we take people from vital organs and we want to plant them to other people .
and as a result , we &apos;re starting to fight the really hard question of when someone is dead , and this brings us into a really difficult situation where we don &apos;t have as simple categories as we used to .
now , you might think that the whole thing would collapse of categories , somebody like me , really make you happy .
i &apos;m politically progressive , i defend people with unusual bodies , but i have to admit it makes me nervous .
to understand that these categories are actually much more insecure than we thought , makes me excited .
and it makes me excited about how democracy works .
thank you very much .
so to tell you about this tension , i have to first know that i &apos;m a big fan of the founding fathers .
i know they were racists , i know they were sexist , but they were great .
i think they were so brave and strong , and so radical , in what they were doing , that every few years i found myself looking at the narrow musical music in 1776 , and it &apos;s not because of the music that is absolutely forgotten .
it &apos;s because of what happened in 1776 with the founding fathers .
the founding fathers , in my view , were the original anatomic activists , and that &apos;s why .
what they showed back was an anatomic concept , and they replaced it by another that was radical and beautiful , and 200 years were measurable for us .
as you all remember , our founding fathers rejected the concept of monarchy , and the monarchy was basically based on a very simplified concept of anatomy .
the rulers of the old world had no concept based on the dna , but they had a concept of birth rights .
they had a concept of blue blood .
they thought that people who had political power should have this political power , because of the inherited bloodline from grandfather to son and so on .
you know , i &apos;ve talked about some of these projects before , about the human genome and what that might mean , and the discovery of new groups of genes .
the founding fathers showed back this idea and replaced it through a new anatomical concept , and this concept said that all humans were created equal .
they nivellized the field of play , and they decided that anatomically , the similarities count , not the differences , and that was very radical .
now they did this in part because they were part of an enlightenment system where two things grew together .
democracy grew up , but at the same time , science grew up .
if you look at the story of the founding fathers , it &apos;s clear that many of them were very interested in science , and they were interested in a concept of a natural world .
they went away from explanations of supernatural kinds , and things like a supernatural concept of power , where the transmission is based on a very vague concept of birth right .
they moved to a natural concept .
and if you look at the declaration of independence , for example , they talk about nature and the god of nature .
they &apos;re not talking about god and the nature of god .
they &apos;re talking about the power of nature to tell us who we are .
in fact , we &apos;re starting from a new point : we &apos;ve digitized biology , and now we &apos;re trying to get from the digital code to a new phase of biology by designing and building new life .
and as part of that , they gave us a concept that was about anatomic similarities .
and with that , they &apos;ve really prepared the future civil rights movement .
they didn &apos;t think about it that way , but what they did for us was great .
so what happened years after that ?
for example , women who were aspirational about voting , the concept of the founding fathers , which says that anatomic similarity is more important than the anatomic difference , and said , &quot; we have a uterus and ovarian hives , as a difference is not significant enough that we shouldn &apos;t have the right to vote , the right to own the full citizenship , the right to own property , etc . &quot;
and women were arguing that successfully .
next was the successful civil rights movement , where we saw people like sojourner truth , who were spach , &quot; am i not a woman ? &quot;
we find men in the marching rows of the civil rights movement saying , &quot; i &apos;m a man . &quot;
again , people of different skin color , which is based on anatomic similarities before anatomic differences , again , successful .
we see the same thing in the disability movement .
we &apos;ve always tried to ask meaningful questions .
of course , the problem is that , as we start to look at all the similarities , we have to start asking , why do we maintain certain separations ?
well , i want to keep certain separations , anatomically , in our culture .
i don &apos;t want to give a fish the same rights as a human .
i don &apos;t want to say that we should take away from anatomy .
i don &apos;t want to say that five year-olds should be right to give their informed consent to sex or to marry .
so there are some anatomic separations that make sense to me , and that we , i think , should keep .
but the challenge is to try to figure out which ones are and why we keep them , and whether they &apos;re meaningful .
so let &apos;s go back to these two creatures that have been taken at the beginning of the talk .
we have two creatures , both in the middle of 1979 , on exactly the same day .
let &apos;s imagine that one of them , maria , was born three months earlier , so she was born on june 1 , 1980 .
we go through initiation rituals .
but the waorani not only killed outsiders with the spear .
what is life ? it &apos;s something that i think many biologists have tried to understand and do it at different levels .
heinrich , on the other hand , is born to the birthday , so he &apos;s born on march one , 1980 .
just because of the fact that maria was born three months early , she gets all sorts of rights three months before heinrich -- the right to have the right to choose , the right to drink .
heinrich has to wait for all of this , not because he actually has another biological age , just because of the time of his birth .
we find other oddities about what their rights are .
heinrich , because you assume he &apos;s male -- although i didn &apos;t tell you that he &apos;s the one with xy -- because you assume he &apos;s male , he can now be attracted to what maria doesn &apos;t have to worry about .
whereas maria can &apos;t perceive the same thing in all states that heinrich has in all states , and that is the right to marry .
heinrich can marry a woman in any state , but maria can now marry a woman in a few states .
so we have these permanent anatomic categories that are problematic and questionable in many ways .
and for me , the question is , what are we going to do , because our science is making such progress in the anatomy area that we can reach a point where we need to admit that a democracy that is based on anatomy could fall apart ?
i don &apos;t want to give up science , but at the same time it feels like science is self-assembling .
we tried different approaches to simplify it to the minimal components .
so where do we go ?
it seems like our culture is taking a kind of pragmatic posture : &quot; well , we have to draw a line somewhere , so we &apos;re going to pull it somewhere . &quot;
but a lot of people get caught in a very strange position .
so , for example , texas decided at one point that to marry a man means that you don &apos;t have an y chromosome , and to marry a woman means that you have an y chromosome .
now in practice , people are not tested for their chromosome .
but it &apos;s also very bizarre , because of the story that i told you about the androgen receptor defect at the beginning .
if we look at one of the founding fathers of modern democracy , dr. martin luther king , he offers us in his &quot; i have a dream &quot; a kind of solution .
he says we should judge people not for &quot; their skin color , but for the property of their character , &quot; and go beyond anatomy .
and i want to say , &quot; yes , that sounds like a really good idea . &quot;
but how do you do that in practice ?
we &apos;ve digitized almost 20 years , and when we sequenced the human genome , the shift from the analog world of biology to the digital world of computers .
how do you judge people because of their characteristics ?
i also want to point out that i &apos;m not sure that we should distribute rights in terms of people like this , because i have to admit that i know a series of golden retriever , which probably deserves more social benefits than some people i know .
i want to say that i probably also know some bright labs that are more capable of making fundier , more intelligent , more mature decisions about their sexual relationships than some 40-year-olds i know .
so how do we deal with the question of the characteristics of the character ?
it turns out to be really hard .
and part of me is wondering , what if the content of a personality was something that would be machine readable in the future -- using fmri , could be made visible ?
do we really want to go that way ?
i &apos;m not sure where we go .
what i know is that it really seems to be important to think about the idea that the united states is leading to thinking about questions of democracy .
in our effort for democracy , we &apos;ve done a really good thing , and i think we &apos;re going to do well in the future .
now we &apos;re trying to ask , can we regenerate life , or can we create new life , from this digital universe ?
we don &apos;t have the situation , like in iran , where a man who is sexually drawn to other men is punished to death , unless he &apos;s willing to undergo a gender transformation , in which case he can stay alive .
these kinds of states don &apos;t exist with us .
i &apos;m glad to say that we don &apos;t have these states -- a surgeon that i talked to a few years ago , who had brought some siamesian twins to separate them , partly to make a name .
but when i was telephone with him , and he asked him why he was doing these interventions -- they were highly risky surgeries -- his answer was that in his country , these kids would be treated very poorly , and so he had to do it .
i said to him , &quot; well , did you consider political asyl instead of having an operation to separate it ? &quot;
the united states offers incredible opportunities to allow people to be who they are , without having to change in the state for the will .
so i think we need to be leaders .
well , just to conclude , i want to notice that i &apos;ve talked a lot about the fathers .
and i want to think about the possibilities of what democracy might look like , or what it might have looked like if we had more involved the mothers .
and i want to say something that is a feminist is a bit radical , and that is that i think there might be different kinds of insights that are used by different kinds of anatomy , especially when people apply a group thinking .
this is the map of a small organism , mycoplasma geitalium , which has the smallest genome of a species that can replicate itself in the lab , and we &apos;ve tried to do that with a smaller genome .
for years , because i &apos;ve been interested in intersexuality , i &apos;ve also been interested in research in gender difference .
and one of the things that i found really interesting is the difference between men and women in terms of how they think and operate in the world .
what we &apos;ve learned from cross-cultural studies is that women , on average -- not each , but on average -- tend to give a lot of attention to complex social relationships and care for people who are vulnerable within the group .
and that &apos;s why , when we think about it , we have an interesting situation in front of us .
years ago , when i was a graduate student , one of my undergraduates asked me that he knew my interest in feminism -- i looked at myself as a feminist , and i still do -- a really strange question .
he said , &quot; tell me what feminism is female . &quot;
and i thought , &quot; well , that &apos;s the stupidest question i &apos;ve ever heard .
feminism is about dissolving stereotypes about gender , so feminism is not female .
but the more i thought about his question , the more i thought there could be something female in feminism .
that is to say , there could be something in the average , which is what makes women &apos;s brains different from men , what makes us pay more attention to highly complex social relationships , and more attention to the need for the protective .
we &apos;ve been able to avoid about a hundred genes from the 500 or something like that .
so where the founding fathers were extremely suspicious of figuring out how to protect individuals from the state , it &apos;s possible that if we put more mothers into this concept , we will have more of a concept of , not just how to protect , but how to care for each other .
and maybe it &apos;s where we need to go in the future , when we &apos;re going to do democracy about anatomy -- less about the individual body in terms of identity , and more about relationships .
so that if we , as people , try to make a more perfect connection , we think about what we can do for each other .
thank you .
i &apos;m jessi , and this is my suitcase .
but before i show you what i have in it , i &apos;m going to do a very public confession , and that &apos;s : i &apos;m obsessed with outfits .
i love to find and wear a different colorful , crazy outfit at any opportunity , and to photograph and blog recently .
but i don &apos;t buy anything new .
i get all my clothes out of second hand on floating markets and in second-hand shops .
ooh , thank you .
but if we look at this metabolic map , which is very simple , compared to ours . trust me , that &apos;s simple . but if we look at all these genes that we can eliminate one after the other , it &apos;s very unlikely that this would lead to a living cell .
second-hand shopping allows me to reduce the impact of my garderobe on the environment and also the impact of my purse .
i meet all sorts of great people ; my dollars usually serve for a good purpose ; i look pretty unique ; and it makes me buy my own personal shopping .
i mean , what am i going to find today ?
is it going to be my size ?
am i going to like the color ?
will it cost less than 20 dollars ?
when all the answers are yes , i feel like i &apos;ve won .
i come back to my suitcase , and i &apos;ll tell you what i &apos;ve packed in here at ted for this exciting week .
i mean , what does anybody bring with so many outfits ?
so i &apos;m going to show you exactly what i brought .
so we decided that the only way forward is to actually synthesize this chromosome , which allows us to vary the individual components and ask some of these fundamental questions .
i brought seven underpants , and that &apos;s all .
underpants for just a week are all i did in my suitcase .
i bet that i would find anything else that i might want to wear , if i first came to palm springs .
and since you haven &apos;t heard of me as the woman walking around here at ted in her underwear -- that means i found a few things .
and i want to show you my outfits this week .
does that sound good ?
as i do that , i &apos;m also going to leave you with some of the lessons that i &apos;ve learned , believe it or not , from these adventures , not to wear anything new .
let &apos;s start with sunday .
i call this the radiant tiger .
you don &apos;t have to spend a lot of money to look great .
and so we started with the question , can we synthesize a chromosome ?
you can almost always look great for less than 50 dollars .
this whole outfit , including the jacket , cost me 55 , and it was the most expensive piece that i was wearing all week .
monday : color is something powerful .
it &apos;s almost physiologically impossible to be miserable when you &apos;re wearing light red pants .
if you &apos;re happy , you attract other happy people .
tuesday : adaptation is totally overrated .
i spent a lot of my life trying to be myself , and at the same time adapting myself .
just be who you are .
if you surround yourself with the right people , you will not only understand , you will appreciate it .
wednesday : embrace your inner child .
does it allow chemistry to create these really big molecules that have never been done before ?
sometimes people tell me , i look like i &apos;m dressing , or i remember your seven-year-old .
i like to smile and say , &quot; thank you . &quot;
thursday : self-confidence is the key .
if you think you look good in something , it &apos;s almost safe .
and if you think you don &apos;t look good in something , you &apos;re probably right .
i grew up with a mother who taught me the day for day .
but it wasn &apos;t until i turned 30 that i really understood what that means .
and i &apos;m going to summarize that for you for a moment .
if you believe that you &apos;re inside and out there &apos;s a wonderful person , there &apos;s nothing you can &apos;t wear .
so there &apos;s no excuse for somebody in this audience .
they drilled through each other .
and if we can do that , can we start the chromosome ?
we should be able to rock everything we want .
thank you .
friday : a universal truth -- five words : golden pailletes fit to everything .
and finally , saturday : developing a unique , personal style is a great way to tell the world something about you without having to say a word .
it was proven to me over and over again , when people came up to me this week , just because of what i was wearing , and i had great conversations .
obviously , this is not going to fit into my tiny suitcase .
so before i go home to brooklyn , i &apos;m going to donate this all again .
because the lesson i &apos;m trying to learn this week is that it &apos;s okay to let go .
i don &apos;t have to emotionally attach these things , because right around the corner there &apos;s always going to be another crazy , colorful , radiating outfit that &apos;s waiting for me if i have some love in my heart and i &apos;m looking for it .
thank you very much .
a chromosome , by the way , is just a piece of informed chemical material .
thank you .
good afternoon , everybody together .
i have something i want to show you here .
think of this as a visual point , as a flying point .
that &apos;s what we call in our lab , perceptual design .
let me tell you a little bit about it .
now if you take this picture -- i &apos;m originally italian , and every boy in italy grows up with this picture in his room , but the reason i &apos;m going to show you this is something very interesting happened in the formula one in the last few decades .
some time ago , if you wanted to win a formula 1 race , you took your budget and you put your money on a good driver and a good car .
and if the car and the driver were good enough , they won the race .
now today , you need , if you want to win a race , in fact , something like this -- something that monitors the car in real time , has a few thousand sensors that pass on the information from the car , that information to the system , and then you process it and then use it to send back decisions and change things in real time as information is collected .
our steps in digitizing life were exponential .
this is what you would call a real-time control system , in engineering teams .
and basically , it &apos;s a system made up of two parts -- a sentient part and a reacting part .
what &apos;s interesting today is the real-time control systems start to emerge in our lives .
our cities , in the last few years , have been equipped with networks and electronics .
they become computers in the open .
and as a computer in the free , they start reacting in a different way , they &apos;re perceived and driven .
when we make cities , it &apos;s actually a big deal .
by the way , i want to mention that cities are only two percent of the world &apos;s land , but 50 percent of the world &apos;s population is there .
they &apos;re 75 percent of the energy consumption -- it causes up to 80 percent of the co2 emissions .
so if we do something with the cities , that &apos;s a big deal .
our ability to write genetic code has been evolving very slowly but still increasing , and our final point is now going to be on an exponential curve .
beyond the cities , all of this perceive and push into objects of everyday life .
this is from an exhibition that paola antonelli , for moma , later in the year , during the summer .
it &apos;s called &quot; go with me . &quot;
now , all of our objects , our environment , are starting to talk back to us .
in a certain sense , it &apos;s almost as if every atom is going to be two out there , a sensor and a driver .
and that radically changes the interaction that we have people out with our environment .
in a way , it &apos;s almost like the old dream of michelangelo ...
you know , when michelangelo shaped moses , it means that at the end of the day he took the hammer and threw it on moses -- in fact , you can still see a little bit of untender -- and he said , &quot; perché non parli ? why don &apos;t you talk ? &quot;
now , today , our environment begins for the very first time to respond to us .
i &apos;m just going to show you a few examples -- again , with the idea of perceiving and driving our environment .
we started this 15 years ago .
let &apos;s start with the perception .
now the first project i want to introduce you to is actually one of the first of our labs .
it was born four and a half years ago in italy .
and what we did was actually use a new kind of network that was used all over the world -- this is a mobile phone network -- and use anonymous and aggregated information from this network that &apos;s been collected anyway by the operator to understand how the city works .
the summer was a happy summer -- 2006 .
it was when italy won the football world cup .
some of you will remember , it was when italy was playing against france , and then at the end of zidane , the headquarters .
and anyway , italy eventually won .
now look at what happened that day , just watching the activity that happens in the network .
here you see the city .
it actually took several years to start with a bioethical review before we did the first experiments .
you see in the middle , the colosseum , the fluid .
in the morning , before the game .
you see the timeline up there .
early afternoon , people here and there , who are calling and moving .
the game starts -- silence .
france does a gate . italy does a gate .
half-time , people make a short call , go to toilet .
second half-time . end of the normal play time .
first extension , second .
zidane , in a moment of the headquarters .
as it turns out , dna synthesization is very difficult .
italy wins . yeah .
now , that night , everybody went to the center to celebrate .
they saw the big impact .
the next day , everybody went to the center to meet the victory team and the prime minister at the same time .
and then everybody went down .
you see the picture of the place about massimo , where , since the roman time , people are going to celebrate -- to have a big party , and you see the impact at the end of the day .
now , this is just one example of how we can feel the city today , in a way we couldn &apos;t do it a few years ago .
very quickly , another example of feeling : this is not about people , it &apos;s about things that we use and consume .
well , today we know all about where our stuff comes from .
this is a map that shows you all the chips that a mac computer is made of , how they came together .
there are tens of thousands of machines around the world that can make small pieces of dna , 30 to 50 letters long , but it &apos;s a degenerative process , so the longer you make a piece , the more mistakes happen .
but we know very little about where things go .
so in this project , we actually designed some small markers to track the trash as it goes through the system .
so we started with some volunteers that helped us , a little over a year ago , in seattle , to tag the things that they threw away -- different kinds of things , as you can see -- things that they would throw away anyway .
then we have the little chips , the little brands , glued on the trash and started tracking it .
here are the results that we just got .
from seattle ...
after a week .
with this information , we realized that there are a lot of inefficient things in the system .
we can actually do the same things with less energy .
the data was not available before .
so we had to develop a new method where we could put these little pieces together and correct the mistakes .
but this is what happens to a lot of unuseful transportation and complicated things .
but the other thing is , we think that if we see every day that the cup that we throw away doesn &apos;t just disappear that it &apos;s still somewhere on the planet .
and the plastic bottle that we &apos;re still throwing away every day .
and if we were to show that to people , then we can make a change in behavior .
so that &apos;s the reason for this project .
my colleague at mit , assaf biderman , could tell you much more about this , and the many other wonderful things that you can do with perceivation , but i &apos;d like to talk about the second part that we discussed at the beginning , and that &apos;s the concrete of our environment .
and the first project is something we did a few years ago in zaragoza , spain .
it started with a question of the mayor who came to us and said that spain and south europe have a beautiful tradition of using water in public places as part of architecture .
and the question was : how could you connect technology , new technology with it ?
and one of the ideas that was mediated at mit in a workforce was , imagine these tubes , and valves , magnetic valves , valves that open and close .
this was our first attempt , starting with the digital information , the phi x 174 genome .
they &apos;re causing something like a water curtain with water points .
if these images fall down , they can write on it , they can display patterns , images , text .
and you can get close to him , and he will open up to make them jump through , as you can see in this picture .
well , we introduced the mayor of belhole .
he liked it very much .
and we got the mission to design a building at the entrance of the expo .
we called it the digital water pavillion .
the whole building was made of water .
there are no doors or windows , but if you approach it , it will open up and let it go .
the roof was also covered with water .
54 percent of the deaths happened by drilling through .
it &apos;s a little virus that kills bacteria .
and if it &apos;s windy , if you want to reduce the syringes , you can actually leave the roof down .
or you could close the building , and the whole architecture , like in this case , you know , these days , when you go down the roof , you get images of people who were there and say , &quot; you &apos;ve destroyed the building . &quot;
no , they didn &apos;t destroy the building , it &apos;s just that architecture almost disappears .
here &apos;s how the building works .
you see the person who &apos;s wondering what &apos;s going on inside .
and here you see me trying to not get wet in the test of the sensors that opened the water .
now , i should tell you what happened one night when all the sensors stopped working .
but in fact , it was an even more fun that night .
all the children from zaragoza came to the building , because the way they played with the building was very different .
no longer a building that would open up to let them go , but a building that still had breaks and holes in the water , you had to jump now without getting wet .
we made little pieces , made a error correction , and we had a dna molecule of about 5,000 letters .
and that was , for us , very exciting , because , as architects , engineers , as designers , we always think about how the people who use the things that we design .
but reality is always unpredictable .
and that &apos;s the beauty of creating things that are used and interacting with people .
so here &apos;s a picture of the building with the physical imagery , the data points of water and the projections on it .
and this is what got us thinking about the following project that i &apos;m going to show you now .
imagine these images could really start to fly .
imagine if you could have little helicopters that fly through the air , and each of them with a little bit of a change point with light -- almost like a cloud that can move through the room .
here &apos;s the video .
imagine a helicopter , like the one you saw earlier , that moves with others , completely synchronized .
you can have this cloud .
the exciting phase came when we took this piece of informed chemical and put it in a bacterium , and the bacteria started to read the genetic code and made viral particles .
you can have a kind of flexible screen or display , like this -- a uniformly formation in two dimensions .
or unregularly , in three dimensions , where what changes is light , not the position of the images .
they can play with different species .
imagine the screen could just appear in different formats or sizes in different resolution .
but then the whole thing could be just a 3d cloud of points that you can go to and move through , that you can look at from many , many directions .
here you can see a real flyfire-controlling that goes down to form the same v as it used to .
when you turn on the light , it looks like this , so that &apos;s the way we saw it before .
imagine that every single person is controlled by people .
it could have a impulse of every single image that comes from people , from people &apos;s movements , or something like that .
i want to show you something about first of all .
the viral particles were then released by the cells and came back and killed e. coli .
we &apos;ve been working with roberto bolle , one of the best ballet dancers of our time -- the étoile at the metropolitan theater in new york and the scala in milan -- we &apos;ve taken his movements in 3d to use them as a impulse for the flyfire .
here you see roberto dancing .
on the left-hand side , you see the images , the different captured impressions .
it &apos;s simultaneously a real-time 3d scan and a motion shot .
so that you can understand the whole movement .
you can do that all the time .
but then once we have all the imagery , they can play with it and play with color motion and motion .
we want to use that as a possible impulse for the flyfire .
i want to show you the latest project that we &apos;re working on .
it &apos;s something we &apos;re working on for the olympics in london .
i spoke to the oil industry recently , and they said that they were doing this model .
it &apos;s called the cloud -- the cloud .
the idea is , again , imagine the one that we bring back to people to do something and to change the environment -- almost something we call the cloud movement , how to move a scheunentor , but with a cloud .
imagine that anyone can give a little donation to a point of view .
i think that the remarkable thing that &apos;s happened over the last few years , the last decade , is that we &apos;ve moved from a physical to a digital world .
this has digitized everything , knowledge , and it makes it available through the internet .
today , for the first time -- and the campaign of obamas showed this -- we can move from the digital world , from the self-organizing forces of networks to the physical world .
this can be , in our case , that we use it to design and create a symbol .
that means something that &apos;s built in the city .
but tomorrow , it can allow us to challenge the coming -- think about climate change , or co2 emissions -- how can we then move from the digital world to the physical ?
so the idea is that we actually involve the people in which they do things together , collectively .
they laughed more than you do here .
the cloud is again a cloud of points of imagery , in the same way as a real cloud is a cloud of particles .
and these particles are water , while our cloud is a cloud of points of imagery .
it &apos;s a physical form in london , but it &apos;s covered with images .
they can move inside and make different kinds of experiences .
you can actually look at it from the bottom , share the most important moments for olympics in 2012 and beyond , and use it as a kind of connection to the community .
so both , the physical cloud in the sky and something that you can go to the top , like london &apos;s new mountain summit .
you can go in .
and a kind of digital shrimp at night -- but most important , a new kind of experience for anyone who wants to go to the top .
thank you .
as an artist , i really care about the relationship .
so we think that this is a situation where software can actually build its own hardware in a biological system .
through my work , i &apos;m trying to express that people are not separate from nature , and that everything is connected .
the first time i was in antarctica , almost 10 years ago , where i saw my first iceberg .
i got awe .
my heart raced , i was dizzy , while i was trying to grab what was in front of me .
the iceberg around me was racing almost 60 meters out of the water , and i could only wonder that this was a snowflake on a different snowflake , year after year .
ice mountains are born as a calf of a glacier , or by breaking out of ice customs .
every iceberg has its own individual personality .
they &apos;re clearly interacting with their environment and their experience .
some of them refuse to give up and claim to the bitter end , while others don &apos;t have it , and they collapse dramatically in an attack of passion .
if you look at an iceberg , it &apos;s easy to think that it &apos;s isolated and separated and alone , no matter how humans often see each other .
but we wanted to go much further . we wanted to build a whole bacterial chromosome , and it has more than 580,000 letters of genetic code . so we thought we could build it in cassette tape from the size of the virus where we could vary the size of the tape to understand what the individual components of a living cell are .
but the truth is far from it .
as an iceberg melts , i breathe his pre-time atmosphere .
as the iceberg melts , it releases minerals of drinking water , which feeds many forms of life .
i &apos;m going to pretend in my footage of these iceberg , as if i were to make portraits of my ancestors , in the sense that they exist in these individual moments of this way , and never will exist again .
it &apos;s not a death when you melt ; it &apos;s not an end , it &apos;s a progression of your path along the life cycle .
part of the ice in the icebergs that i &apos;m photographing is very young -- a few thousand years old .
and part of the ice is more than 100,000 years old .
the last images i &apos;d like to show you are an iceberg that i photographed in kekertsuatsiak in greenland .
very rarely , you &apos;re actually witnessing a rolling iceberg .
here you see it .
design is the key , and if you want to start with digital information in the computer , that digital information has to be really error .
on the left , you see a little boat .
that &apos;s about five meters long .
please look at the shape of the iceberg and where it is on the water line .
you can see here , he starts rolling , and the boat has moved to the other side , the man stands there .
this is the average size of a greenland iceberg .
it races about 120 feet out of the water , or 40 meters .
and this video is in real time .
and just like that , the iceberg shows you a different side of his personality .
thank you .
my life is really extraordinarily blessed by working on some amazing projects .
when we first sequenced the genome in 1995 , the error rate was one error per 10,000 base pairs .
but the coolest thing i &apos;ve ever worked on is this guy .
his name is tempt .
tempt was one of the leading graffiti artists of the &apos; 80s .
then , one day , he came back from running and said , &quot; dad , my legs crystallize . &quot;
and that was the outbreak of that as a result .
tempt is completely paralyzed today .
he can only use his eyes .
i was faced with him .
so i have a company that does design and animation , so graffiti is inevitably a complex part of what we admire and pay attention to in the art world .
so we decided to support tony -- tempt -- and his thing .
we followed the geneaology eight generations , and we found two cases of a natural death , and when we asked people about it , they admitted that one of the people had gotten so old that he died because of his age , and we still killed him with the spear .
we found 30 errors in respirating , and if we had used the original sequence , it would never have been possible to go up .
i met with his father and his brother , and i said , &quot; we &apos;re going to give you this money .
what are you going to do with it ? &quot;
and his brother said , &quot; i just want to be able to talk to tony again .
i just want to go back to him , and i said , &quot; wait a minute , isn &apos;t that -- i saw stephen hawking -- can &apos;t all the paralyzed people communicate with these devices ? &quot;
and he said , &quot; no , just if you &apos;re listening to the higher social layer and you have a remarkable insurance , you can really do that .
ordinary people are not available to these devices . &quot;
and i said , &quot; how do you communicate ? &quot;
did anybody see the movie &quot; butterfly and diving bell ? &quot;
this is how they communicate -- this is how their fingers walk along .
i said , &quot; very archaic , how can that be ? &quot;
part of the design is to create pieces that are 50 letters long and that have to overlap with other 50-letter pieces to build smaller sub-units to fit them together .
so i came up with the need to just put out a check , and instead i put out a check that i didn &apos;t have the slightest idea of how to fix it .
i committed myself in the field , and i was facing his brother and his father -- saying , &quot; well , my suggestion is this : tony &apos;s going to talk , we &apos;re going to get him a device , and we &apos;re going to find a way to make his art again .
because it &apos;s a farce that somebody who &apos;s carrying all this can &apos;t communicate it . &quot;
so i spoke at a conference a few months later .
i met these people from grl , graffiti research lab , and they have a technology that allows them to project a light on any surface , and then draw on it with a laser pointer that only governs the negative area .
so they move around and they make art installations like this .
they say that all the things that are shown up there follow a life cycle .
it starts with the gender parts , and then the word comes , then the bush publishing , and then finally , people actually do art .
but there was always a life cycle in their presentations .
so i went home and ate with my wife , and i told her about everything , and we thought , &quot; well , wait a minute , if there &apos;s this technology that you can use to control things , then we should find a way that tempt can control a laser , so that it can do graffiti again , that would be brilliant . &quot;
we &apos;ve built unique elements here .
that was the beginning of the journey .
and about two years later , about a year later , after a lot of organization and a lot of things , we &apos;ve achieved some things .
first of all , we got the insurance of the doors , and we actually got a device for tempt to communicate with -- a stephen hawking machine .
that was incredible .
and he &apos;s really extremely funny -- i call him yoda , because you talk to him , or you get an email , and you say , &quot; i &apos;m so unworthy , this guy is incredible . &quot;
also , we flew seven programmers from all over the world -- literally from all over the world -- home to us .
my wife , my children and i have moved to the garage , and these hackers and programmers and conspiracy theorists and archists have taken over our house .
many of our friends thought that we were pretty stupid to do this , and that we came back and all the images on the walls were dedicated to graffitis .
but for over two weeks , we programmed , we went to the venice beach , my kids were involved , my dog was also , and we created this .
it &apos;s called eyewriter , and you can see the description .
you may have heard that we put in watermarks .
this is a cheap sunglasses that we bought at the venice beach beacher , some copper wire and some things from the building market and the electronics trade .
we took a ps3 camera , we put it apart , put it on a led light , and now we have a device that &apos;s freely available -- you can build it yourself , we provide the code for free , you can download the software for free .
so we &apos;ve created a device that &apos;s completely free of constraints .
no insurance can squeeze .
no hospital either .
any paralyzed can actually communicate or draw with your eyes alone .
thank you .
thank you very much , that was incredible .
so at the end of the two weeks , we went back to tempt &apos;s room .
i love this picture , because it &apos;s the room of someone else , and that &apos;s his room .
think about it : we have a four-letter code : a , c , g and t .
now there &apos;s all this fame in front of the great unveiling .
and after over a year of planning , two weeks of programming , nudelparties and nights , tony drew again after seven years .
and this is an amazing picture , because this is his life support system , and he looks beyond his life support system .
we &apos;ve got his bed tilted so he can see out .
we set up a projector against a wall of the parking lot in front of the hospital .
and he drew again for the first time , in both his family and friends -- and you can only imagine what a sense that was in the parking lot .
we also had to break into the parking lot , so we felt right as part of the sprawl scene .
in the end , he sent us an email with the following content , &quot; for the first time in seven years , i drew something .
i feel like i was crushed underwater , and finally someone grabbed down and pulled my head up so i could breathe . &quot;
isn &apos;t that overwhelming ?
triplets of these letters -- these letters encode about 20 amino acids ; and here &apos;s a single determination for each of these amino acids .
this is something like our fight cry .
that keeps us at the bar , and it keeps us going .
and we still need to improve a lot of this device .
it &apos;s an amazing device , but it comes to a magic board .
and someone who has such an artistic potential deserves so much more .
so we &apos;re trying to figure out how to make it better , faster and stronger .
since that time , we &apos;ve gotten all sorts of recognition .
we won some awards .
remember , it &apos;s free , none of us deserve to do it .
it all comes from our own pockets .
so we can use the genetic code to write our words , sentences , thoughts .
so the awards were , &quot; oh , that &apos;s fantastic . &quot;
armstrong twitter about us and then in december , the time-magazine honored us as one of the 50 best inventions in 2010 , which was really great .
the coolest thing is -- and this closes the whole circle -- that there will be an exhibition in the meeting of moca in the inner city of los angeles called &quot; art of the streets . &quot;
and there may be pretty much the toughest representatives of the street art scene -- banksy , shepard fairey , caws -- all these guys will be there .
tempt is going to be part of the show , which is quite abandoned .
so basically , what i &apos;m talking about is , if you see something that &apos;s impossible , then you can do it .
everything in this room was impossible -- this stage , this computer , this microphone , the eyewriter -- everything was impossible at some point .
make it possible -- all of you here .
i &apos;m not a programmer , and i &apos;ve never had anything to do with exquisite technology , but i just captured something and surrounded myself with amazing people so that we could put something on the legs together .
and that question should be , each of you should be wondering , every single day that you have something to do , if not now , when ? and if not me , who will ?
we &apos;ve only signed at the beginning .
thank you .
so , i write for kids , and i &apos;m probably america &apos;s mostly yellow children &apos;s book author .
and i always tell people that i don &apos;t want to come along with this as a scientist .
you can have me as a farmer , or in leather , but no one has ever chosen farmers .
today i want to tell you about circles and revelations .
well , a epiphany is usually something you find because you &apos;ve let it fall somewhere .
you go around the block and you take it as an epiphany .
this is a painting of a circle .
one of my friends did it -- richard bollingbroke .
it &apos;s the kind of complicated circle that i want to tell you about today .
some people were disappointed that it wasn &apos;t poetry .
my circle started in the &apos; 60s at high school in stow , ohio , where i was the classroom .
i was the one who was beaten in the juvenile &apos;s green and blue every week until a teacher saved my life .
she saved my life by letting me use the toilet in the classroom .
that &apos;s what she did secretly .
she did it for three years .
and i had to go out of the city .
i had a thumb , i had 85 dollars , and it hit me to san francisco in california -- i found a lover -- and back in the &apos; 80s , i thought it was important to do a job with aids organizations .
about three or four years ago , i got a call in the middle of the night from this teacher , woman posten , who said , &quot; i have to see you .
i &apos;m sad that we &apos;ve never met each other as adults .
can you come to ohio , and please come together with the man that i know you &apos;ve found him in the meantime .
we built the pieces so that we could just break them up with enzymes , and there are enzymes that repair them and repair them .
and i should mention that i have pancreatic cancer , and i want you to hurry . &quot;
well , the next day we were in cleveland .
we looked at her , we laughed , we cried , and we knew she had to be in a hospice .
we found one for them , we took them , and we took care of them , and we took care of their family , because it was necessary .
it was something we knew to do .
and just as the woman who wanted to meet me as an adult , met me , turned her into a box of ash and was put in my hands .
what had happened was that the circle had closed , it had become a circle -- and the revelation that i talked about .
the epiphany is , death is part of life .
she saved my life , and my partner and i saved her .
and you know , this part of life needs everything that the rest of life needs .
but at the same time , they had a clear knowledge of the forest that was amazing .
and we started making pieces , starting with pieces that included five to seven thousand letters , adding them together to make 24,000-letter pieces to put them back together , to 72,000 .
he needs truth and beauty , and i &apos;m so glad that this is so often mentioned here today .
he needs the same -- he needs dignity , love and pleasure . and it &apos;s up to us to give these things .
thank you .
imagine a big explosion as you go up to 1,000 meters .
imagine a plane full of smoke .
imagine a power plant that makes a clap , clack , clack , clack , clack , clack , clack , clack .
this sounds frightening .
well , i had a unique place that day ; i was sitting on 1d .
i was the only one to talk to the airstrips .
so i looked at them in a moment , and they said , &quot; no problem , we probably got some birds . &quot;
in each step , we made these pieces overshooting so that we could sequence them , because we tried to create a very robust process , which you &apos;ll see in a minute .
the pilot had already used the machine , and we weren &apos;t that far away .
you could see manhattan .
two minutes later , three things happened at the same time .
the pilot set out the machine after the hudson river .
that &apos;s not usually the route .
it turns off the power plants .
imagine a soundless airplane .
and then he said three words -- the most intuitive words i &apos;ve ever heard .
he says , &quot; ready for the impact . &quot;
i didn &apos;t have to talk to the bordstaff anymore .
we tried to get to the point of automation .
i could see it in your eyes , there was a shy , the life was over .
i want to share with you three things that i learned about myself that day .
i learned that in a moment , everything is different .
we have this life plan , we have these things that we want to do in life , and i thought about all the people that i wanted to do a hand , and i didn &apos;t do it , all the fences that i wanted to flick , all the experiences that i wanted to do and never did .
while i was thinking about it later , i came up with a phrase , which is , &quot; i collect bad wine . &quot;
because if the wine is there , and the person is there , i open it up .
i never want to move anything in life .
and this urgency , this goal , has really changed my life .
the second thing that i learned that day -- and that was when we were missing the george washington bridge , pretty much like hair width -- i thought , man , there &apos;s one thing that i really regret .
i had a good life .
so , this looks like a basketball playoff .
in my own humanity and with my mistakes , i aspired to be better at everything that i was attacking .
but in my humanity , i also gave my ego room .
and i regretted the time i wasted for meaningless things , with people who mean something .
and i thought about the relationship with my wife , to friends , to people .
and after that , when i was thinking about it , i decided to ban negative energy from my life .
it &apos;s not perfect , but it &apos;s much better .
i didn &apos;t argue with my wife for two years .
it feels great .
i &apos;m not trying to be right anymore ; i &apos;m deciding to be happy .
the third thing i learned -- and as the internal clock starts , &quot; 15 , 14 , 13 , ... &quot;
if we get to these really big pieces -- with over 100,000 base pairs -- they &apos;re not just going to grow in e. coli . it &apos;s going to exceed all the possibilities of modern molecular biology , and so we turned to other mechanisms .
you see the water coming .
i said , &quot; please fly into the air . &quot;
i don &apos;t want this thing to break into 20 parts , as you know from documentaries .
while we &apos;re falling down , i had this feeling of human dying is not terrifying .
almost like we prepare our lives to do it .
but it was very sad .
i didn &apos;t want to go ; i love my life .
and that sadness really formed in a thought , which is that i wish only one thing .
i just wish i could see my kids grow up .
about a month after that , i visited a show of my daughter -- first graders , not a lot of artistic talent ...
we knew about a homologous recombination mechanism that biology uses to repair dna that can assemble these pieces .
... not yet .
and i celebrate , i cry like a little child .
and in the world , everything made sense to me .
i realized at the time , by connecting the dots together , that life is all about being a great father .
more than anything , everything , my only goal in life is to be a good father .
i became part of the miracle , not to die that day .
i got another gift , which is to look into the future and come back and live differently .
my call to all of you who fly today is : imagine that the same thing happens on your flight -- please don &apos;t -- but imagine it ; and how would you change ?
what would you do that you &apos;re going to push , because you think you &apos;re there forever ?
how would you change your relationships and the negative energy in it ?
here &apos;s an example of this . there &apos;s an organism called deinococccccus radiodurans that has three million bikes of radiation .
and more than anything , are you the best parents that you can only be ?
thank you .
the idea behind the stuxnet computer worm is pretty simple .
we don &apos;t want iran to build the bomb .
the most important post there for developing nuclear weapons is the uranium incentives in natance .
the gray boxes that you see here are real-time control systems .
now , if we can combine the systems that control rotation and valves , we can actually cause a lot of problems with the centrifuge .
these gray boxes don &apos;t run with windows software ; they &apos;re based on a completely different technology .
but if we &apos;re able to get an effective windows-virus on a laptop that &apos;s used by a warning engineer to configure this gray box , then we &apos;re in business .
and this is the planning behind stuxnet .
you see in the upper field that his chromosome just falls apart .
so we start with a windows dropper .
the usage data is transferred into the gray box , damages the centrifuge and the iranian nuclear energy program is delayed -- commission .
this is a child &apos;s game , right ?
i want to tell you how we found that .
when we started our research on stuxnet six months ago , it was completely unknown what the purpose and purpose of this construction was .
the only thing we knew is very , very complicated in terms of the windows- part , the dropper-part , made by countless fracture .
and it seemed to have something , with these gray boxes , these real-time control systems .
this attracted our attention , and we started a lab project where we infected our environment with stuxnet , and we looked at this construct .
and then something weird happened .
stuxnet behaved like a lab rat that didn &apos;t like our cheese -- sniffed it , but didn &apos;t want to eat it .
12 to 24 hours later , everything has reassembled as it was .
it didn &apos;t make sense in my eyes .
and after experimenting with different kinds of cheese , i realized that this is a target attack .
completely focused on a particular goal .
the dropper is actively arguing on the gray box when a special configuration was discovered , even if the special program that &apos;s trying to infect it on this goal .
and if not , then stuxnet doesn &apos;t do anything .
so , this really got me interested , and we started working with it , almost around the clock , because i thought , well , we don &apos;t know what the goal is .
it could be , for example , a us- american power plant , or a chemical plant in germany .
so we should soon find out what the goal is .
so we extracted and decomposed the attack code , and we found that it &apos;s structured in two digital warheads -- a smaller one and a bigger one .
and we also noticed that they were very professionally constructed by people who obviously had all the insides information .
we have thousands of organisms that can do that .
they knew all the bits and bytes that they had to attack .
they probably even knew the size of the machine operator .
so they knew everything .
and if you &apos;ve heard that the dropper of stuxnet is complex and high-tech , let me tell you , the usage data is a science for itself .
it &apos;s much more sophisticated than anything we &apos;ve ever seen .
here &apos;s an excerpt from this attack code .
we &apos;re talking about -- about 15,000 lines of code .
it looks pretty much like old-fashioned assembler language .
and i want to tell you how we were able to get rid of this code .
so what we were looking for first was systems function , because we know what they &apos;re doing .
their hunters could smell the urine of an animal from 40 steps away , and determine what kind of animals they belonged to .
these organisms can be completely dry , they can even live in the vacuum .
and then we looked for timers and data structures and tried to connect them to the real world -- with potential goals in the real world .
so we needed theories about these goals that we could evidence or disprove .
in order to make these theories , we remind ourselves that it &apos;s definitely high-level sabotage , it has to be a high-quality goal , and it &apos;s very likely in iran , because there are most infections reported there .
well , in this area , there are not several thousand targets .
it &apos;s basically going out into the bumblebee nuclear power plant and the incentives in natance .
so i said to my assistant , &quot; bring me a list of all the experts in centrifuge and power plants in our client stem . &quot;
and i called them up , and i tapped into their knowledge to compare their expertise to what we found in the code and in the data .
and that worked very well .
so , we were able to connect the little digital warhead to the rotor tax .
the rotor is this moving part within the centrifuge , this black object that you see .
i &apos;m absolutely sure that life can exist in space and move , looking for aquatic conditions .
and if you manipulate the speed of this rotor , you &apos;re actually able to crack the rotor and eventually even explode the centrifuge .
what we &apos;ve also found is that the goal of the attack was actually to let it happen slowly and extraordinarily -- obviously in trying to make warning engineers desperate , so they wouldn &apos;t be able to get there quickly .
the big digital warhead -- we got a glimpse by looking at very precisely data and data structures .
so for example , the number 164 is very much sticking out of this code ; you can &apos;t overlook it .
i started working through scientific literature , about how these centrifuges are built in natance , and i found that they &apos;re structured in what we call cascades , and each cascade contains 164 centrifuges .
so that made sense , it fit together .
and it got even better .
these centrifuges in iran are divided into 15 so-called levels .
and guess what we found in the attacking code ?
a almost identical structure .
in fact , nasa has shown that there &apos;s a lot of this out there .
so again , it was very well fit together .
and this gave us great confidence for what we were studying here .
now , don &apos;t get me wrong , it wasn &apos;t just that way .
these results have been achieved by several weeks of hard work .
and a lot of times , we just ran into a dead alley , and we had to recollect ourselves .
anyway , we found that both the digital warheads were actually heading for one and the same goal , but from different directions .
the little warhead takes over a cascade , and turns over the rotors and slows them down , and the big warhead comes in with six cascades in interaction and manipulate valves .
so , by and large , we &apos;re very confident that we &apos;ve actually determined what the goal is .
it &apos;s sovereignty and it &apos;s just sovereignty .
so we don &apos;t have to worry about other goals being met by stuxnet .
here &apos;s a picture of the molecule that we made by using these processes -- in fact , we just used hefe-mechanisms with the right design of the pieces , we adjusted them . yeast then automatically adds them together .
here &apos;s something really cool stuff that we discovered -- really took me out of the socks .
down there is the gray box , and on the top , you see the centrifuge .
now , what this thing does is it captures the incoming values of sensors -- so , for example , printing sensors and vibration sensors -- and it provides legitimate code that &apos;s still going on during the attack , with false data .
and in fact , this false data from stuxnet is already recorded .
so it &apos;s just like in hollywood movies , where during the tracking chase , the surveillance camera is fed with previously recorded video recordings .
that &apos;s cool , isn &apos;t it ?
the idea here , obviously , is not just the overlists machine operators in the control room .
in fact , it &apos;s much more dangerous and aggressive .
the idea is to overcome a digital security system .
we need digital security systems where a human machine operator can &apos;t respond fast enough .
this is not an electron microscope . it &apos;s a regular microscope .
so in a power plant , for example , when the big steam turbine gets too fast , you have to open up deposit valves within milliseconds .
of course , this can &apos;t be done by a human leader .
so this is where we need digital security systems .
and if they &apos;re at risk , then really bad things can happen .
the power plant can explode .
and neither the machine leaders , nor the security system , will it notice .
this is scary .
but it gets worse .
and what i &apos;m saying now is very important .
think about it . this attack is generic .
it &apos;s such a big molecule that we can even see it with the light microscope .
he has nothing to do with centrifuge , with uranium acquisition .
so he would work just as well -- in a power plant or in a car factory .
it &apos;s generic .
and you don &apos;t have to -- as the attacker -- you don &apos;t have to put the usb data on a usb stick , as we saw in stuxnet .
you could also use ordinary worm technology to spread .
you just have to spread it as far as you can .
and when you do that , you end up with a cyber weapon of mass destruction .
this is the consequence that we have to face .
so unfortunately , the biggest number of goals for those attacks is not in the middle east .
they &apos;re in the united states , in europe and japan .
these are footage over six seconds .
so all these green areas , these are the most targeted environments .
we need to set the consequences , and we better prepare for ourselves .
thank you .
i have a question .
ralph , a lot of it was reported that people suspect that the mossad is the main organization behind it .
is that also your opinion ?
okay , you really want to know ?
yeah . okay .
i think the mossad is involved , but the driving force is not israel .
so the driving force behind it is cyberpower .
this is the publication that we just recently completed .
there &apos;s only one , and that &apos;s the united states -- fortunately , luckily .
because otherwise , our problem would be even bigger .
thank you for chasing us a fear of healing . thank you ralph .
i &apos;ve spent the last few years putting myself in situations that are usually very difficult and dangerous at the same time .
i went to prison -- hard .
i worked in a coal mining -- dangerous .
i filmed in war zones -- difficult and dangerous .
and i spent 30 days eating nothing but this -- fun at the beginning , a little hard in the middle , very dangerous at the end .
in fact , i &apos;ve been exposing myself to most of my career to the appearance of terrible situations , and all of this for trying to study social belonging so that they &apos;re engaging and interesting , and hopefully , in a way , understand what makes them fun and accessible to the audience .
so when i knew i was going to come here to look at the world of branding and sponsoring in a tedtalk , i knew i was going to do something a little different .
this is over 580,000 letters in genetic code . it &apos;s the largest molecule with defined structure ever created by humans .
some of you may have heard that a few weeks ago , i turned an ad on ebay .
i sent a few facebook messages , some twitter news , and i gave people the opportunity to get the name rights at my tedtalk 2011 .
really , some happy people and companies , for-profit and non-profit , got the unique opportunity -- because i &apos;m sure chris anderson will never let it go -- to buy the name rights of the talk that you &apos;re seeing right now that didn &apos;t have a title or a lot of content , and not a lot of evidence of what the subject would be .
so what you got was this : your name presented here : my tedtalk , which you have no idea what the topic is going to be , and that could fly you around the ears , especially if i had to make your company dumb for your participation .
but besides that , it &apos;s a very good media opportunity .
do you know how many people look at these tedtalks ?
a lot .
this is actually just the title of labor .
so despite that warning , i knew that anyone would buy the name rights .
now if you had asked me this a year ago , i would not have been able to tell you this with certainty .
it has a molecular weight of over 300 million .
but in the new project that i &apos;m working on , my new film , we &apos;re studying the world of marketing , of advertising .
as i said , over the years , i &apos;ve been in some pretty horrible situations , but nothing could prepare me , nothing could help me go to anything as difficult and as dangerous as these guys in a room .
you know , i had the idea for a movie .
what i want to do is make a film around product placement , marketing and advertising , where the whole film is funded by product placement , marketing and advertising .
and the movie will be called &quot; the greatest movie ever sold . &quot;
so what happens in &quot; the greatest movie ever sold &quot; is that everything , from the top to the bottom , is completely missed with brands -- from the cover sponsor you &apos;re going to see in the movie , that &apos;s the brand x .
now this brand , the qualcomm stadium , the staples center ...
these people will be connected to the movie in eternity -- forever .
and so the film will study this whole idea -- that &apos;s what ? in eternity , forever ?
i &apos;m a redundant person .
in the early &apos; 80s , i got a really amazing task when my professor at harvard asked me if i was interested in going to haiti and infiltrating the secret societies that were the foundation of the strength of duvalier and tonton macoutes and the poison that was used to make zombies .
if we were to print it with a writing size of 10 and without distances , it would encompass 142 pages just to print this genetic code .
that was more for emphasis .
it was &quot; in eternity , forever . &quot;
but we &apos;re not only going to have the brand x as a cover sponsor , but we &apos;re going to make sure that we &apos;re going to sell every possible category in the movie .
so we might sell a shoe , and it will be the greatest shoe you &apos;ve ever worn ...
the greatest car you &apos;ve ever driven , from &quot; the greatest film ever sell , &quot; the greatest drink you &apos;ve ever had , a attention from the greatest movie ever sold .
so the idea is , besides showing that brands are a part of life , actually , to get them to fund the film ?
and we actually show the whole process of how it works .
the goal of the whole film is transparency .
you &apos;re going to see the whole thing going on in the movie of stats .
so that &apos;s the whole concept , the whole film , from beginning to end .
now , how do we start a chromosome ? how do we activate it ?
and i would be happy if ceg was going to help to do this .
you know , it &apos;s funny , because when i first heard it , it &apos;s the ultimate respect for the audience .
but i don &apos;t know how recipient people will be .
do you have a perspective -- i don &apos;t want to use &quot; perspective , &quot; because that has a negative connotation -- but do you know how this is going to evolve ?
how much money is needed to realize that ?
1.5 million .
i think it &apos;s hard to meet you , but i think it &apos;s definitely worth addressing some really well-known brands .
who knows , when the movie comes out , we might look like a horde vollidiot .
what do you think the answer will be ?
the answer will be very likely &quot; no . &quot;
obviously , it &apos;s very simple with a virus . it &apos;s much more complicated to deal with bacteria .
but is it a difficult thing to do because of the film or a difficult thing to do ?
jk : both .
... so , not so optimistic .
so , sir , can you help me ? i need help .
i can help .
okay .
fantastic .
we need to think about what brands .
yeah .
if you look at the people that you have to do with ...
it &apos;s as simple if you do it in eukaryonts as we are , you just take the nucleus out and you put another one in , and that &apos;s exactly what you &apos;ve all heard about the clones .
there are some places that we can turn to .
put the camera out .
i thought , &quot; put the camera out of &quot; would mean that we wanted to have a backup conversation .
it turns out that it really meant , &quot; we don &apos;t want to have anything to do with your movie . &quot;
and just like that , all these companies disappeared , one after the other .
no one wanted to have something to do with the movie .
i was amazed .
they didn &apos;t want to have anything to do with the project .
and i was confused , because i thought the whole concept of advertising was to present your product to as many people as possible , let as many people see it as possible .
especially in today &apos;s world , in this intersection of new and old media and the fragmented media landscape -- it &apos;s not the idea of being in this new exciting , exciting tool that the masses are bringing this message .
in archaebacterium , the chromosome is integrated into the cell , but it &apos;s only recently that we &apos;ve shown that you can take a complete transplant of one chromosome from one cell to another and activate it .
no , that &apos;s what i thought .
but look , the problem was that my idea had a fatal mistake , and that was the following .
in fact , no , that wasn &apos;t the mistake at all .
that wouldn &apos;t have been a problem at all .
that would have been okay .
but what this picture is for is a problem .
see , if you put transparency in google search , this is -- this is one of the first images that appears .
i really like your kind , sergey brin . now .
that was the problem : transparency -- free of deception and bags , just to explore and look through , instantly understandable , characterized by visibility and access to information , especially in terms of business practices -- the last line is certainly the biggest problem .
you know , we &apos;re hearing a lot about transparency right now .
we cleaned up the chromosome of a microbial species , and in fact , they &apos;re both so far apart from each other as humans and mice , and we gave some extra-genes to pick this chromosome , and we deployed it with enzymes to destroy all the proteins , and it was very amazing when we put it in a cell -- and they will estimate our very sophisticated graphs here .
our politicians say it , our president says it , even our ceos say it .
but when it comes to the point where it &apos;s supposed to be done , something changes .
but why ? well , transparency is a scary -- like this strange bear that still breaks .
it &apos;s unpredictable -- like this strange landway .
and she &apos;s also very risky .
what else is risky ?
a whole bowl of cool whip eats .
this is very risky .
so when i started talking to the companies and telling them that we wanted to tell this story , they said , &quot; no , we want you to tell a story .
we want you to tell a story , but we just want you to tell our story . &quot;
the new chromosome went into the cell .
see , when i was a kid , and my father caught me lying -- and he &apos;s sitting there looking at me with this view -- he would say , &quot; my son , there are three versions in every story .
there &apos;s your version , there &apos;s my version , and there &apos;s the real version . &quot;
so you see , with this film , we wanted to tell the real version .
but because only one company , an agency was willing to help us -- and it was just because i &apos;ve known john bond and richard kirshentree for years -- i realized that i had to do it alone , i had to go around the middle claus and go straight to the companies with my team .
so what they suddenly started to understand -- or what i started to understand -- was that when you start talking to these companies , the idea of how your brand is understood is a profound problem .
i have friends making big , gigantic hollywood movies , and i have friends making little independent movies like me .
and my friends who make big , gigantic hollywood movies say that the reason their films are so successful is because of the brand partners they have .
and then my friends who make little independent movies say , &quot; well , how do we compete with these big , gigantic hollywood movies ? &quot;
and the movie is called &quot; the greatest movie ever sell . &quot;
so how exactly are we going to see ban in the movie ?
in fact , we thought this was the end , but we tried to get the process a little further .
every time i go out , and every time i open the medical closet , you &apos;ll see ban deodorant .
and every time i interview someone , i can say , &quot; are you fresh enough for this interview ?
are they there ? they look a little nervous .
i want to help you calm down .
so maybe you should put a little bit of this in front of the interview . &quot;
and then we offer one of these great dunes .
either &quot; floral fusion &quot; or &quot; paradise winds , &quot; they &apos;ll have the choice .
we &apos;re going to be equipped for both men and for women -- solid , roll-on , or a stick , whatever .
this is the short term .
now i can answer all of your questions and give you an excerpt socket .
this is the main mechanism of evolution here .
we &apos;re a smaller brand .
as you &apos;ve talked about the smaller movies , we &apos;re a challenge as a brand .
so we don &apos;t have a budget like other brands .
so doing these things -- you know , reminds people of ban -- that &apos;s kind of why we &apos;re interested .
in which words would you describe ban ?
ban is blank .
that &apos;s a great question .
super-legend technology .
technology is not the way you should describe something that someone &apos;s doing under the axes .
we &apos;re talking about bold , fresh .
we find all sorts of species here that have taken a second chromosome , or a third of something , each time adding thousands of characteristics to a species in just a second .
i think &quot; fresh &quot; is a great word that this category really makes something positive , as opposed to &quot; fight smell and humidity . &quot;
it keeps you fresh .
how can we keep them fresh longer -- better fresh , more fresh , three times fresh .
these things have a more positive effect .
and this is a million-dollar company .
what about me ? what about the printing box ?
i have to talk to the man on the street who is like me , otto normal consumers .
you &apos;re supposed to tell me something about my brand .
how would you describe your brand ?
hmmm , my brand ?
to make sense of this sensation , of course , i had to know something about this remarkable belief of the vodoun , and voodoo is not a cult of black magic .
so people who think of evolution as a gene that &apos;s changed at a moment , have missed a lot of biology .
i don &apos;t know .
i really like beautiful clothes .
80s , revival hits skate points , except on the wash day .
all right , what is the brand gerry ?
unique .
i think the genre , the style i have , is probably &quot; dark glamour . &quot;
i like a lot of black colors , a lot of gray notes and stuff like that .
but usually i have an accessory , like sunglasses , or a jewelry and stuff like that .
if dan was a brand , he would probably be a classic mercedes cabrio .
the brand i am , i would say , is a neat fly .
there are enzymes called restriction enzymes that actually digest dna .
woman 2 : part of hippie , part of yogi , part of brooklyn-girls -- i don &apos;t know .
man 3 : i &apos;m the museum guy .
i sell schedules all over the country , worldwide .
so i think that &apos;s my brand .
this is my brand in my little , distorted industry .
my brand is fedex , because i was out .
man 5 : brand failed alcohol addictive writers .
is that possible ?
lawyer : i &apos;m a lawyer brand .
i &apos;m tom .
the chromosome that was in the cell doesn &apos;t have one ; the chromosomes that we &apos;ve added in .
now , we can &apos;t all be the tom-brand , but i often see myself in the intersection of dark glamour and neglect flies .
and what happened was that i needed an expert .
i needed someone who could invade my head , somebody who could really help me understand what &apos;s called &quot; brand personality . &quot;
and so i found a company called olson zaltman in pittsburg .
they &apos;ve helped companies like nests , febreze , hallmark to discover this brand personality .
if you could do it for those , you could definitely help me .
they brought their pictures , right ?
this is me . the first picture is a picture of my family .
just tell me a little bit about how this is connected to your thoughts and feelings about you .
these are the people that shape my worldview .
it was executed in the cell , and it recognized the other chromosome as a foreign material , and so we ended up with just one cell with a new chromosome .
tell me about this world .
md : this world ? i think your own world is the world you live in -- like people around you , the friends , the family , the way you live your life , the work and so on .
all of these things come and start from a place , and for me , they come and start with my family in west virginia .
what &apos;s the next thing you want to talk about .
next . this was the most beautiful day of my life .
what is it about the thoughts and feelings about you ?
it &apos;s the way i like to be .
i like things that are different .
i like things that are weird . i like strange things .
tell me about the &quot; why &quot; phase -- what does it bring us ?
it stained blue because of the genes that we had added in .
what is the machete ? what puppets are you in right now ?
why is it important to reboot ? what is the red ?
tell me a little bit about this part .
a little bit more about you , not you .
what more metamorphosis did you go through ?
... that doesn &apos;t have to be frightened . what kind of rollercoaster are you in ?
eeee ! no , thank you .
thank you very much for your patience .
yeah . all right .
yeah , i don &apos;t know what &apos;s going to be coming out of it .
and after a very short time , it had lost all the characteristics of the species and completely converted into a new species based on the new software that we put into the cell .
there were a lot of crazy things going on .
the first thing i saw was this idea that their brand personality has two separate , but it has a complete pages -- the morgan spurlock-brand is an eight-way / playful brand .
they do very well .
and i think there &apos;s almost a contradiction with it .
and i think some companies will only focus on one strength , rather than both .
many companies tend to -- and this is human nature -- to avoid things where they &apos;re not sure , they &apos;re going to avoid fear , these elements , and they &apos;re going to be welcome , and they &apos;re actually going to turn them into something positive for themselves , and that &apos;s a skilled chess .
what other brands do that ?
the first is a classic , apple .
and you can also see it here , target , wii , mini coopers and jetblue .
well , there &apos;s a game of brands and eight brands , these things that come and go , but a playful , eight brands is a pretty strong thing .
all the proteins changed membranes -- when we read the genetic code , it was exactly what we transferred .
an eighth , playful brand . what &apos;s your brand ?
if somebody asked you to describe your brand identity , your brand personality , how about it ?
are you an up-attribute ? are you something that brings blood into wounds ?
or are you more like a down attribute ?
are you something a little more quiet , reserved , conservative ?
up-attributes are things that are playful , fresh like the fresh prince , time-frame , adventurous , falling out and loving like erol flynn , agile and agile , professional , magical and mystical like gandalf .
or are you more like a down attribute ?
are you mindful and mondemonstrated like 007 ?
are you established , traditional , nurturing , protecting , compassionate , like oprah ?
are they reliable , stable , family , safe , born , holy , suspicious , like the dalai lama or yoda ?
it may sound like genomic alchimie , but we can , by shifting the software dna , change things quite dramatically .
in the course of the film , we had more than 500 companies that were up and down companies that said no , because they didn &apos;t want to be part of the project .
they didn &apos;t want to have anything to do with this film , because they had no control , no control over the finished product .
but there were 17 brand partners who were willing to give up this control , who wanted to do business with somebody as mindful and playful as i did , and who eventually enabled us to tell stories that we couldn &apos;t usually tell -- stories that a commercial would never usually support .
they enabled us to tell the story of neuromarketing , as we tell the story in this film , that we use mri today to plot the fun centers of the brain , both to make advertising and films .
we went to sao paulo , where foreign advertising has been banned .
in the entire city , there has been no evidence africans , no posters , no flyer , nothing .
and we went to school districts , where companies are bathing their way to poor schools , all over america .
the incredible thing for me is that the projects that i got the most feedback of , or where i had the greatest success , are where i was directly interacting with things .
and that &apos;s what these brands did .
because they went around the middle man , they went around the agencies , and they said that the agencies might not really have their interest in mind .
now i &apos;ve argued that this is not the genesis -- this is based on 3.5 billion years of evolution .
i &apos;m going to negotiate with the artist directly .
i &apos;m going to work with him and create something completely different , something that makes people think that our worldview is challenging .
and what was it like for you ? what was it successful ?
now , since the film had the sundance film festival , we can look at this .
according to burrelle , the premiere in january , and since then -- and this is not even the whole thing -- there were 900 million calls from this film .
this is actually just a two-and-a-two-week period .
this is just online -- no press , no television .
the film hasn &apos;t been exposed yet .
it &apos;s not even online . it &apos;s not a streaming .
he hasn &apos;t come out in other countries yet .
and i &apos;ve argued that we might be creating a new form of the cambrian explosion , where there might be massive new education based on this digital design .
well , finally , the film got a very big momentum .
and that &apos;s not bad for a project where almost every commercial agency that we talked to , has recommended their customers to let the fingers go .
one of the things that i firmly believe in is that if you take your chance , you take risks and you take opportunities in those risks .
i think if you keep people from it , you get them closer to failure .
i think that if you train your employees to avoid risk , you &apos;re preparing the whole company to get a profit .
i feel that as we move forward , we have to encourage people to take risks .
we need to encourage people to not be afraid of the possibilities that they might be afraid of .
finally , as we move forward , we should welcome fear .
we should put the bear in the cage .
welcome the fear . welcome the risk .
on the contrary , it &apos;s a complex metaphysical worldview .
why should we do that ?
each of them is a big spoon full , so we welcome the risk .
and finally , we should welcome transparency .
today , more than ever , a little bit of honesty brings us very far .
and that said , with honesty and transparency , my whole talk , &quot; you welcome transparency , &quot; they were presented by my good friends of emc who paid 7100 dollars for the name rights on ebay .
big data is being transformed into big opportunities for organizations around the world .
emc : welcome transparency
thank you .
now , morgan , in the name of transparency , this is what happened to the $ 7100 ?
that &apos;s a great question .
i put a check in my pocket , put it on the top of the ted organization , the sapling foundation -- a check at 7100 dollars to fund my ted performance in the next year .
i think it &apos;s pretty obvious in terms of what we need .
my name is amit .
18 months ago , i did something else at google , and i was talking about doing something with museums and art . my boss , who is here today , gave me green light .
and it took 18 months .
a lot of fun negotiations and stories , i can tell you , with 17 very interesting museums from nine countries .
but i &apos;m going to focus on the demonstration .
there are a lot of stories about why we did this .
i think my personal view is very simple with this slide and access to it .
i grew up in india .
i became a great education -- i didn &apos;t complain -- but i had too many museums , and i had no access to these works of art .
so when i went and went to these museums , i started learning a lot .
we &apos;re growing from six and a half to nine billion people in the next 40 years .
and while i was working for google , i was trying to make this desire -- to make art more accessible -- with technology .
we then created a team , a great team , and we started with this .
i &apos;m going to start with the demonstration , and tell you some interesting things that happened since the start .
so you just go to google project.com .
you can look around in all these museums here .
there &apos;s uffizi , the moma , the hermitage , the rijks , the van gogh .
i even come to one of my favorite , the metropolitan museum of art in new york .
you come in two ways -- very simple .
click , and wumms , you &apos;re at this museum .
it doesn &apos;t matter where you are -- bombay , mexico , it doesn &apos;t make any difference .
to put it in my context , i was born in 1946 .
you go around and you amuse yourself .
you want to orient yourself in the museum ?
open the map , and jump with a click .
they &apos;re in there , they want to get to the end of the gang .
go ahead . fun .
hide them .
thank you , but the best part is still coming .
so , i &apos;m now in front of one of my favorite images , harvested workers by pieter breugel in the met .
i see this bust sign .
if the museum gave us the picture , you click on it .
today , three people on this planet are for everyone who has existed in 1946 , within 40 years , it will be four .
now this is one of the images .
this is all the metadata .
those of you who are really interested in art can click here -- but i &apos;ll click it away now .
this is one of the images that we have stuck with what we call gigapix technology .
this picture , for example , has about 10 billion points of imagery , i think .
and a lot of people ask me , &quot; what do you get for 10 billion points of imagery ? &quot;
this is what i &apos;m going to show you .
you can zoom in and zoom out very easily .
you see something fun here .
i love this guy ; his expression is unaffordable .
we have problems with food , with fresh and clean water , medicine , 6.5 billion people .
but then they really want to go deep .
and so i started playing around , and i realized there was something going on there .
and i thought , &quot; wait a minute , that sounds interesting . &quot;
i went close , and i slowly realized that these kids actually beat something .
i did a little research , and i talked to some of the people who were familiar with met , and i actually found out that it was a game called squail , where a gans is beaten with a stick on the tuesday of the day .
it seemed like it was quite popular .
i don &apos;t know why they did it , but i learned something about it .
to really get close , you can go to the cracks .
just to give you the overview , i zoom out so you can see what you get .
here we were , and this is the painting .
it &apos;s going to offer a challenge to nine .
the best part is -- in a second .
let &apos;s jump quickly to moma , again in new york .
another favorite picture of me , star night .
in the previous example , it was about finding detail .
but what if you want to see the paintbrush strikes ?
and what if you want to see van gogh creating this masterpiece ?
you zoom in . you can actually go in .
i &apos;m going to zoom in on one of my favorite parts of this picture , until i &apos;m really in the cracks .
this is star night , probably never seen this before .
now i &apos;m going to show you my favorite function .
we need over five billion tons of coal , 30-plus billion barrels of oil . that &apos;s a hundred million barrels a day .
there are many more , but i don &apos;t have time .
this is the really cool part , it &apos;s called collections .
every one of you , every one of you -- just as rich or poor , whether you have a great house -- doesn &apos;t matter .
you can go and create your own museum online -- from all these pictures , you can make your own collection .
simple , you go in -- and i created this , which is the power of the zoom -- you can zoom around .
this is &quot; the donated , &quot; in the national alignment .
you can put it all up with remarks , send it to your friends , and start a conversation about what you feel when you look at these masterpieces .
i think , in closing , the main thing for me is that all the wonderful things don &apos;t come from google here .
they don &apos;t even come from the museums , i think .
i shouldn &apos;t say that .
when we think about biological processes , or any process to replace that , it becomes a huge challenge .
they come from the artists .
and that was a humility experience for me .
i mean , i hope that we &apos;re going to be fair with this digital medium of art and represent it online .
and the biggest question that i get asked recently is , &quot; did you do that to replicate the experience of a museum visit ? &quot;
the answer to that is no .
it &apos;s to add the experience .
that &apos;s what it &apos;s about . thank you .
thank you .
this is a representation of your brain . your brain can be divided into two halves .
that &apos;s the left half , which is the logical side , and then the right half , which is the intuitive side .
then , of course , there &apos;s all the co2 from this material that ends up in the atmosphere .
if we had a scale to measure the aptitutes of every hemisphere , we could represent your brain .
for example , this would be somebody who is completely logical .
this would be somebody who is completely intuitive .
now , where would you put your brain on this scale ?
some of us may have chosen one of these extremes , but i think that for most people in the audience , your brain looks something like this -- with a high aptitute that is at the same time in both hemisphere .
it &apos;s not like they &apos;re both exclusive or something .
you can be logical and intuitive .
and so i think of myself as one of the people , along with most of the experimental quantum physicists , who need a good percentage of logic to put together the complex ideas .
but at the same time , we need a good percentage of intuition to actually do the experiments .
how do we develop this intuition ? well , we love to play with things .
it &apos;s interesting .
we now have , from our discoveries from all over the world , a database with about 20 million genes , and i want to believe that these are the design components of the future .
so we go out and play with it , and then we look at how it responds , and then we start to develop our intuition .
basically , they do the same thing .
so one of the intuitions that they &apos;ve developed over the years is probably that one thing can only be in a place at the same time .
i mean , it can sound strange to think that a thing is at the same time in two different places , but they were not born with this idea , they developed it .
i remember seeing a child playing on a ground threshold .
he was a little kid , and he wasn &apos;t very good at it , and he was falling all the time .
but i bet that playing with the ground threshold taught him a very valuable lesson , which is that big things don &apos;t just leave you by , and they stay in a place .
and this is a great conceptual model of the world , as long as they &apos;re not a particle physicist .
it would be a terrible model for a particle physicist , because they &apos;re not playing with the soil , but with these little strange particles .
and if you play with your particles , you will find all sorts of strange things -- like that you can fly right through walls , or that you can be in two different places at the same time .
the electronics industry had a dozen components , and look at the diversity that came out of it .
and so they wrote down all these observations , and they called the theory of quantum mechanics .
this was the state of physics a few years ago ; it took quantum mechanics to describe the little , tiny particles .
but you didn &apos;t need them to describe the big everyday objects around us .
that didn &apos;t like my intuition , and maybe that &apos;s just because i don &apos;t play with particles so often .
well , i sometimes play with them , but not very often .
and i &apos;ve never seen them .
i mean , no one has ever seen a particle .
but my logical side didn &apos;t like it either .
because if all things are made of particles , and all these particles follow the rules of quantum mechanics , shouldn &apos;t they just follow the rules of quantum mechanics ?
i don &apos;t see a reason why it shouldn &apos;t be .
so , we &apos;re primarily hitting the limits of biological reality and the limits of our imagination .
so i would feel better with the whole thing , if somehow we could show that everyday objects also follow the rules of quantum mechanics .
so a few years ago , i went to do exactly that .
i created one .
this is the first object you can see in the quantum mechanical superposition .
so what we &apos;re looking at here is a tiny computer chip .
and you can see that green dot there in the middle .
this is the piece of metal that i &apos;m going to talk about in a moment .
this is a picture of the object .
here i &apos;m going to scale it up . we &apos;re looking at the center right here .
and here &apos;s a really big close-up of this little piece of metal .
we have technologies today because of these fast synthesizers to do what we call combinatorial genetics .
so what we &apos;re looking at is a little piece of metal , it &apos;s like a springboard shaped , and it &apos;s over the edge .
so i made this thing in a similar way that you make a computer chip .
i went to a clean room with new siliconic slices , and i racked on all the big devices for 100 hours .
for the last bit , i had to build my own machine -- to get this swimming pool of shaped hole and the thing .
this thing has the ability to be in the quantum mechanical superposition , but it takes a little help to do it .
look , let me give you an analogy .
you know how uncomfortable it is to be in a full elevator ?
i mean , if i &apos;m alone in the elevator , i do all sorts of weird things , but then other people go up and i stop doing all these things , because i don &apos;t want to hurt them , or , frankly , they disappear .
so quantum mechanics says that intractable objects feel the same .
the intractors for intractable objects are not just humans , but also the light that shines on them and the wind that goes by them and the heat of the room .
we now have the ability to build a big robot that can make millions of chromosomes a day .
and so we knew that if we wanted to see that this piece of metal is in a quantum mechanical way , we had to kick out all the passengers .
and that &apos;s what we did .
we switched off the light , put it in a vacuum , and we sucked out all the air and cooled it up to almost the moment , all alone in the elevator , the piece of metal was free to behave like it wanted .
so we measured his movement .
we found that it &apos;s really strange .
instead of just sitting there , it vibrated . the way it vibrated was sort of like this -- like a stretching and coherent bubble belt .
in which we gave him a little push , we were able to vibrate it at the same time and not vibrate it -- something that is only allowed in quantum mechanics .
so what i &apos;m going to tell you is something truly fantastic .
what does it mean to vibrate for an object at the same time and not vibrate ?
let &apos;s think about the atoms .
if you imagine making these 20 million different genes , or optimizing these processes to make octan , or drugs , new vaccines , we can change more molecular biology with a small team than the last 20 years of science .
so the first case : all the trillions of atoms that make up the piece of metal are still there , and at the same time , the same atoms are moving up and down .
just to precise times , they agree .
the rest of the time , they &apos;re delocalized .
that means that every atom is at the same time in two different places , which means that the whole piece of metal is in two different places .
i think that &apos;s really cool .
really .
that was worth closing in the clean space for all this year , because , you know , check that , the difference in mass between a single atom and this piece of metal is about the same as the difference between the piece of metal and you .
so if a single atom can be in two different places at the same time , this piece of metal can be in two different places , why not you ?
i mean , that &apos;s just what my logical side says .
so , imagine if you were at the same time in several places , how would that feel ?
and it &apos;s just pure selection . we can select for life , production of chemicals , or fuel production , vaccine production , and so on .
how would your consciousness be about your body being delocalized in the room ?
there &apos;s another aspect of history .
when we warmed it up , switched on the lights and looked in the box , we saw that the piece of metal was always there in a piece .
and so i had to develop this new intuition that it looks like all the objects in the elevator are actually just quantum objects that are made together in a small space .
you hear a lot of talk about how quantum mechanics says that everything is connected to everything .
well , that &apos;s not quite right .
there &apos;s more behind it , and it &apos;s even deeper .
it &apos;s so that these connections , their connections with all the things around them , literally define who they are , and that &apos;s the profound and strange of quantum mechanics .
thank you .
in 2007 , i decided that we should reconceptualize how we think about economic development .
this is a photograph of actual design software that we &apos;re working on , that you actually sit down with and design new species on the computer .
it should be our goal that if families think about where they live and work , they will be able to choose between at least one hand of different cities that are all in competition for new residents .
at the moment , we &apos;re far from this goal .
there are billions of people in the developing world who are not even available to a single city that they would welcome .
but the amazing thing about cities is that they &apos;re worth so much more than it costs to build them .
so we could take the world very easily with duzers , maybe even hundreds of new cities .
now this may sound absurd to you , as far as you &apos;ve never thought about new cities .
just swap out the building of apartments for the cities .
imagine that half the people who want to live in apartments are already doing this , but the other half are not .
you could try to expand the capacity of the existing apartments .
but you know what they &apos;re going to be into , in these apartments and their environment , there are laws to avoid and to distract from degradation .
you know , we don &apos;t necessarily know what it &apos;s going to look like . we know exactly what their genetic code is going to look like .
so it turns out to be very hard to get all these extensions .
but you could go to a completely new place , build a whole new block of living , and then you would have the laws that would support this kind of construction and not prevent it .
so i proposed that governments create new areas that provide enough space for a city and give them a name : charter cities .
i later discovered that , about the same time , jafour and octavio have thought about the challenge of a reform in honduras .
they knew that every year , about 75,000 hondurans left their country to go to the united states , and they wanted to know what they could do to make sure that these people could stay in their country and can do exactly the same thing in honduras .
at this point , jafour has said to octavio , &quot; what happens if we take an uninhabited area of our country -- what if we just give them a message -- a part of the american embassy , a part of the canadian embassy , and if people want to go to work under the canadian rules or the united states , can they work there , and on the surface of these messages , can they do everything that they usually need to go to canada or america ? &quot;
in the summer of 2009 , honduras suffered from a severe crisis .
in the next planned elections , pepe lobo won in a turnaround , whose program promised both innovation and simplification .
he asked octavio to become his stealth .
in the meantime , i was preparing for a talk at tedglobal .
we &apos;re now focused on fourth generation fuels .
by improving , by testing , by testing consumers , i tried to reduce this complicated concept of charter city to the basic elements .
the first point is the importance of laws , laws that determine that you can &apos;t disturb existing housing owners .
we give great attention to new technologies , but for progress , it needs technologies and laws , and it &apos;s usually laws that keep us back .
in the fall of 2010 , a friend from guatemala octavio sent the link to the tedtalk .
again , he showed him jafour .
they called me up .
and said , &quot; let &apos;s present this to the chairman of our country . &quot;
so we met in december in the meeting room of a hotel in miami .
i &apos;ve tried to make it clear how valuable cities are , how much more valuable they are than they cost .
and i used this graph to show how valuable rohland is in a place like new york , and remember , in some cases , a surface is worth thousands of dollars per square meter .
we need to deal with the unstopping separation of death , and so it shouldn &apos;t surprise us that we all sing , dancing and art .
if i asked you to count the great world religions , what would you say ?
you &apos;ve seen corn to ethanol recently , which is just a bad experiment .
but it was a pretty abstract discussion , at a point when there was a break , octavio said , &quot; paul , maybe we could look at the tedtalk . &quot;
so the tedtalk , in a very simple form , was that a charter city is a place whose uninhabited country is , a founding contract that determines the laws that govern there and gives people the opportunity to decide whether to live under those rules or not .
so i was asked by the president of honduras , who said that we had to do this project , that it &apos;s important , and that this is the way to bring our country forward .
i was asked to come to tegucigalpa and give a talk again on the fourth and the fifth of january .
so i gave another talk with facts , which includes a graph like this , which tries to make sure that if you want to create a lot of value in a city , it has to be a very large city .
this is a picture of the city of denver , and the sketch represents the new airport that was built in denver .
this airport alone has a surface of 100 square kilometers .
so i tried to convince the hondurans to build a new city , you have to start with an area of at least 1,000 square kilometers .
that &apos;s more than 250 thousand acres .
politely , everybody applauded .
we have second and third generation fuels that are going to come out relatively soon that will have much higher sugar , like octan or different kinds of butanol .
the audience &apos;s faces were very serious and alert .
the head of congress came on the stage and said , &quot; professor romer , thank you very much for your talk , but maybe we could look at the tedtalk .
i have it on my laptop here . &quot;
so i sat down , and they played the tedtalk .
and i &apos;ve come to the core point that a new city offers new possibilities to people .
there would be an opportunity to live in a city that would be in honduras , instead of hundreds of miles away in the north .
and a new city also includes new possibilities for leaders .
the leaders of the government in honduras would depend on the help of partnership countries , they could benefit from their partnerships , which they would support in providing the laws for this charter , and in performing , that everyone could trust that the charter is really performed .
and the realization of president lobo was that the certainty of the translation that i &apos;ve been thinking about as a way to get the foreign investors to come and build this city could be equally significant for all the parties in honduras that have been suffering from fear and suspicion for many years .
we went to an area .
but , as we think , the only way that biology will have a huge impact on the cost of food , or the limitation of its availability , is when we see co2 as an exit material , and so we &apos;re working on cells that go this way .
this picture is from this place .
it sucks up a thousand square miles .
and shortly after that , on january 19th , they voted in congress for a change in constitution to have a constitutional rule that is reliable in particular developing areas .
in a country that has just passed a huge crisis , congress has been elected for this change in comprehension with 124 to a voice .
all parties , all the fractions of society , supported this .
in order to be part of the constitution , it has to be approved twice by congress .
on february 17th , it was approved to be a voice for the second time with 114 .
immediately after this election , between the 21st and february 24th , a delegation of about 30 famines traveled to the two places in the world that were most interested in going into the business of the city building .
one place is south korea .
this is a picture of a big , new city center that was built in south korea -- big as the city center of bostons .
and we think we &apos;re going to be the first to be the fourth generation fuels , and in about 18 months .
everything you can see in this picture was built within four years after it took four years to get the permits .
the other place that was very interested in urban building is singapore .
they &apos;ve already built two cities in china , and the third is in preparation .
so if you &apos;re basically thinking about it , it &apos;s where we are today .
they already have a building site , and they &apos;re already mentioning this area for the second city .
it &apos;s already been working on a legal system that allows managers to participate , and it &apos;s also working on an external legal system .
a country has already offered to provide its supreme court as a dish to the decent appeal of the court system there .
also urban designers and builders are very interested .
they even bring in funding .
one thing , as you know , has been explained , is there are many rents .
sunlight and co2 are a method .
there are a lot of businesses that would like to colonize in america , especially in a place with a free trade zone , and there are a lot of people who would like to live there .
all over the world , there are 700 million people who say that they want to live in another place all the time .
a million people are leaving latin america every year and migrating to the united states .
many of them are fathers who are forced to leave their families back to look for work -- sometimes they &apos;re single mothers who have to make enough money to be able to afford food and clothing .
unfortunately , sometimes even kids who are trying to find their parents that , in some cases , they haven &apos;t seen for a decade .
so what is it for an idea to think about this in honduras to build a whole new city ?
or even building dumb of these cities , or distributing hundreds around the world ?
so what is it for an idea to insist that every family has a choice between several cities competing for new residents ?
this is an idea worth spreading .
my friends from honduras asked me to say , thank you ted .
but in our discovery of the world , we have all sorts of different ways .
do you know how many decisions you make on a typical day ?
do you know how many decisions you make in a typical week ?
i did a survey recently with over 2,000 americans , and the average number of decisions that are , by the way , a typical american in one day is 70 .
and they also did a recent study with ceos , where they watched the ceos for a week .
and these scientists have just documented the various topics that this ceo is looking at , and how much time they spent making decisions that are related to the topics .
and they found that the average ceo is dealing with 139 tasks a week .
each of these topics , of course , was made up of many , many smaller decisions .
50 percent of your decisions have been made in nine minutes or less .
only for about 12 percent of their decisions , they took an hour or more of their time .
think about your own decisions .
this is an organism we described in 1996 .
do you know how many decisions you make in the nine minutes of category versus the one hour of category ?
how good do you think you are at dealing with the decisions ?
today i want to talk about one of the biggest decision-making problems of our modern times , the decision-making problem .
i want to talk about the problem and some possible solutions .
now , when i talk about this problem , i &apos;m going to ask you some questions , and i want to know your answers .
if i ask you a question , raise your hand , because i &apos;m blind , only if you want to burn some calories .
otherwise , i ask you , if i ask you a question , and your answer is yes , so my first question for today is , are you ready to hear about the decision-making problem ?
thank you .
when i was a graduate student at stanford university , i went to this very exclusive grocery store , at least at the time he was really exclusive .
it was a store called draeger &apos;s .
it lives in the deep sea , about a mile and a half deep , with almost boiling water temperatures .
this business , it was almost like a pleasure park .
they had 250 different kinds of mustard and essive and over 500 different kinds of fruits and vegetables and more than two dozen different kinds of water -- and that was at a time when we actually drank sewage water .
i loved to go to this business , but at one point i was wondering , well , how come you never buy anything ?
here &apos;s the olive oil gear .
they had over 75 different kinds of olive oil , including the ones that were locked in boxes that came from a thousand years old olive trees .
so one day , i decided to visit the filiall egg , and i asked the ladder , &quot; does this model work that you really have all these possibilities to people ? &quot;
and he pointed to the bus charges of tourists who came every day and used to have their cameras .
we decided to do an experiment , and we chose marmelade for our experiment .
here &apos;s her marker aisle .
they had 348 different kinds of marmelade .
it converts co2 into methane using hydrogen as a source of energy .
we set up a little costing bag right at the entrance of the business .
we put six different flavors of marmelade , or 24 different flavors of marmelade , and we looked at two things : one , i would have more people left and try marmelade ?
there are more people left when it was 24 , about 60 percent , than when it was six , about 40 percent .
and after that , we looked at what case people were more like buying a glass of marmelade .
now we saw the reverse effect .
of the people who were standing there when it was 24 , only three percent actually bought a glass of marmelade .
of the people who were standing there when it was six , well , now we saw that 30 percent of them actually bought a glass of marmelade .
now , if you calculate it , people bought six times more of a glass of marmelade , who they had six choices than if they had 24 choices .
now , deciding not to buy glass of marmelade is probably good for us -- at least it &apos;s good for our waist -- but it turns out that the decision-making problem also affects us in very consequence decisions .
we don &apos;t choose to decide , even though it &apos;s against our own best interests .
we &apos;re looking at whether we can use stored co2 , which could just be brought to production stores , convert the co2 into fuel to drive this process .
so , the theme of the day : financial saving .
now i &apos;m going to describe to you a study that i did with gur huberman , emir kamenica , wei jang , where we looked at the decisions to save for the retirement of almost a million americans from about 650 plans all over the united states .
and what we looked at was whether the number of fondsans that were possible to a retirement plan , the 401 plan , the probability of saving more for tomorrow .
and we found that there was actually a context .
so in these plans , we had about 657 plans that offered people something between two and 59 different fonds .
and what we found was that the more fonds were offered , that , in fact , the more participating was lower .
now , if you look at the extreme , the plans that offered two fonds , they had a participation rate in the &apos; 70s -- still not as high as we want .
in the plans that offered almost 60 fonds , the participation rate now fell to about the sixth percent .
now it turns out that even when you decide to participate , when you have more choices to choose , even then , it has negative consequences .
so the people who decided to participate , rather than the more possibilities they were available , the more they rent it to actia and fonds .
christianity , islam , buddhism , judaism , whatever .
within a short period of time , we think we could be able to solve one of the fundamental questions of life .
the more opportunities they had available , the more they put all their money into pure money market accounts .
none of these extreme decisions , belonging to the decisions that someone would recommend to us if our future financial well-being is important .
now , in the last 10 years , we &apos;ve seen three major negative consequences in humans that are providing more and more choices .
you &apos;re pushing the decision -- push it up , even when it comes to your own best interest .
they make more bad decisions -- worse financial and worse medical decisions .
they choose more for things that they make themselves less happy , even if they make it objective .
the main reason for this is that we may enjoy these huge shelves of mayonaise , mustard , essive and marmelade , but we can &apos;t actually draw the comparisons and the limitations and then actually choose something from the fantastic deal .
so what i want to suggest to you today is four simple techniques -- techniques that we &apos;ve tested in different ways and different research places -- that you can just apply in your business .
first of all , limits .
you &apos;ve heard it before , but it was never more true than today that less is .
you know , we really have -- modern goals like replacing the entire petrochemical industry . right . if you couldn &apos;t do that at ted , where else ? to become a main source of energy .
people are always worried when i say , &quot; restrict . &quot;
they &apos;re always worried that they &apos;re losing the ground .
but in fact , we see it more and more , that if you &apos;re willing to constrain , and the unimportant possibilities get rid of , well , then there &apos;s a increase in the sales , it &apos;s going to reduce the cost , &amp; amp ; and there &apos;s an improvement in decision-making .
when proctor and gamble reduced the various head and shoulder species from 26 to 15 , they experienced an increase in sales by 10 percent .
when the golden cat corporation got rid of her 10 most bad catastrophe , they experienced that the winnings went up by 87 percent -- a result of both the sales and the reducing of cost .
you know , the average supermacrt today offers you 45,000 products .
a typical walmart offers you 100,000 products today .
but the ninth largest supermarket , the ninth largest supermarket in the world today is aldi , and they only offer them 1,400 products -- a kind of tomato sauce in doses .
now , in the world of savings , i think one of the best examples that recently came to the market , about how to best mandate the choices , was something that david laibson was very much involved in , which is a program that is offered at harvard .
every single harvard staff is now automatically participating in a lifetime fund .
but in the same way , we &apos;re working on using the same approaches to developing vaccines .
those who really want to make a choice are offered 20 fonds , not 300 or more fonds .
you know how people often say , &quot; i don &apos;t know how to limit it .
it &apos;s all important possibilities . &quot;
and the first thing i ask the employees is , &quot; tell me how the possibilities are different from each other .
and if your employees can &apos;t keep them apart , your customers can &apos;t . &quot;
now , before we started today , i had a conversation with gary .
and gary said that he would be willing to offer an all-inclusive vacation to the most beautiful street in the world .
here &apos;s a description of the street .
and i &apos;d like to read them to you .
and now i &apos;m going to give you a couple of seconds to read them , and then i &apos;m going to ask you to clap , if you &apos;re willing to take gary &apos;s offer .
you saw it this year with the flu , we &apos;re always on the back of it , and we have a dollar too little when it comes to the right vaccine .
okay . everybody who &apos;s willing to take gary &apos;s offer .
are they all ?
all right , let me show you a little bit more of that .
they knew it was a trick , right ?
well , who &apos;s ready for that journey .
i think i may have heard more hands .
good .
the fact is that they were objectively looking at , the first time they had more information than the second time , but i would like to guess that they felt it was real in the second time .
because the images made it feel real for them .
which brings me to the second technology that helps you deal with the problem of decision-making overload , it &apos;s the concretization .
i think that can be changed by making recombined vaccines in advance .
the point is that to understand the difference between possibilities , people have to understand what consequences are associated with the individual possibilities , and that these consequences have to be vividly and concrete .
why do people spend 15 to 30 percent more on average when they use an ec-map or a credit card than barmoney ?
because it doesn &apos;t really feel the money .
and it turns out that if you make it feel concrete , it &apos;s a very good tool to get people to save more .
so in a study that i did with shlomo benartzi and alessandro previtero , we did a study with the people at ing -- employees who all worked for ing -- and these people were all in a gathering where they signed up their participation for their retirement plan .
and during this gathering , we left this gathering just as it was , we just added a little bit .
the smallness that we added was that we asked people to just think about all the positive things that would happen in their lives if they were saving money .
in which we did this simple thing , there was a 20 percent increase in participation , and there was a increase in the number of people who were willing to save , or a four percent increase in the amount that they were willing to pay for the savings account .
third technology : categorization .
we can deal with more categories than with more choices .
this is what the future might look like with changes , can now be accelerated with synthetic bacteria , archaeas , and perhaps eukaryonts .
here , for example , is a study that we did in a magazine .
it turns out that in the way mans supermarkets up and down in the northeast , it varies between 331 different types of magazines up to 664 magazines .
but you know what ?
if i show you 600 magazines and i divide them into 10 categories , or i show you 400 magazines , and i divide them into 20 categories , then you think that i gave you more choice and better choice than i would have given you the 400 to the one if i gave you the 600 .
because the categories tell me how to keep them apart .
here are two different jewelry facilities .
one is called &quot; jazz , &quot; and the other is called &quot; swing . &quot;
if you think the one on the left is swing and the ad on the right is jazz , you clap your hands .
okay , there are a few .
if you think that &apos;s jazz on the left , and that , on the right side , is swing , please clap .
we are removed from making people better . our goal is that we have a chance to survive long enough to possibly do that . thank you very much .
okay , a few more .
well , it turns out they &apos;re right .
the one on the left is jazz , and the one on the right is swing , but you know what ?
this is a highly unuseful categorization .
the categories have to tell the selector something , not the one who provides the choice .
and you often see this problem when you look at the long lists of all of these fonds .
who do you really want to inform with this ?
my fourth technology : premise for complexity .
it turns out that we can actually deal with more information than we think we just have to simplify it .
we need to slowly increase complexity .
at the last ted conference , i gave a introduction to the lhc .
i &apos;ll show you an example of what i mean .
let &apos;s take a very , very complicated decision : the purchase of a car .
here &apos;s a german car manufacturer who gives you a chance to completely configure your car .
you have to make 62 different decisions to completely design your car .
now , these decisions are different in the number of choices that you &apos;re offering per decision .
car color , exterior color of the car -- i have 56 possibilities .
motors , gears -- four possibilities .
what i &apos;m doing now is , i &apos;m changing the order in which the decisions appear .
half of the customers are going to go from the many possibilities of 56 car colors to the small possibilities , four gears .
the other half of the customers go from the low possibilities , four gears , to the 56 car colors , many possibilities .
and i promised to come back and tell you how the machine works .
what do i look at ?
how interested they are .
if you use the standard choice in the decision all the time , it means you &apos;re overwhelmed , the hottest , i lose it .
what they find is that the people who go from the many to the low choice dough , go over and over again and choose the standard choice .
we lose it .
go from the little choice to the many , stay there .
it &apos;s the same information . it &apos;s the same number of possibilities .
the only thing i &apos;ve done is to change the order in which this information is presented .
when i start with the simple beginning , i learn how to choose .
even though the gear chooses not to tell me about my preferences in the interior , it still prepare me to choose .
so now it is . and for those of you who weren &apos;t there at the time , the lhc is the largest scientific experiment ever attempted -- 27 kilometers in diameter .
i &apos;m also excited about the big product that i put together , and so i &apos;m willing to get myself motivated to be involved in it .
let me summarize .
i &apos;ve told you about four techniques that alleviate the problem of decision-making overload -- limits -- get rid of the excess alternatives ; concretize -- make it real ; categorize -- we can better deal with more categories , less possibilities ; prepare for complexity .
each of these techniques that i &apos;m describing to you today is thought to help you manage the opportunities -- well for you , you can use them for yourself , good for the people you &apos;re providing service .
because i think the key to the best possible choice is that you &apos;re selective in the selection .
and the more we are selective in choosing , the better we will be able to practice the art of the decision .
thank you .
hi . i &apos;m kevin allocca , trends-manager at youtube . i look at youtube videos .
that &apos;s true .
today , we want to talk about how videos become viral , and then we want to talk about why it &apos;s important .
a continent is always left out , because the guess was that in sub-saharan africa , there was no religious faith , and of course there was one , and voodoo is simply the remaining of this very profound religious thought that came across during the tragic diaspora of slavery time .
his job is to create the conditions that existed less than a billionth of a second after the universe started -- and up to 600 million times within a second .
we all want to be stars -- celebrities , singers , comedians -- when i was young , it seemed so infinite .
but web videos have enabled us all , or all of our creative activities , to become insanely famous in part of the culture of the world .
every single one of you could be famous on the internet until next saturday .
but on youtube , more than 48 hours of video is uploaded every minute .
again , a tiny percentage ever gets viral and is viewed thousands of times and so on to the cultural moment .
so how does this work ?
three things : tastemaker , participation communities and the unexpected .
well , then we want to .
oh my god . oh my god .
oh my god !
it &apos;s just breathtaking ambition .
whoa !
ohhhhhh , wowww !
last year , bear vasquez sent this video that he had filmed in front of his house in yosemite national park .
in 2010 , it had been seen 23 million times .
this graph shows what it looked like when the video was first popular last summer .
in fact , bear didn &apos;t want to make a viral video .
he just wanted to share a rainbow .
because this is what you do when you &apos;re called yosemite mountain bear .
he had uploaded a lot of natural videos .
and this video had actually been sent in january .
this is the machine below geneva .
what happened here ?
there was jimmy kimmel .
jimmy kimmel sent the tweet who ended up making the video so popular .
because tastemaker like jimmy kimmel introduces us to new and interesting things and shows a big audience .
it &apos;s friday , friday . gotta get down on friday . everybody &apos;s look forward to the weekend , weekend . friday , friday . gettin &apos; down on friday . you wouldn &apos;t have thought we were going to have this conversation without talking about this video , i hope .
rebecca black &apos;s &quot; friday &quot; is one of the most popular videos of the year .
it &apos;s been looked at almost 200 million times this year .
this is what the graph looked like .
just like the double rainbow , it seems to have come out of nowhere .
what happened that day ?
we &apos;re recording images of this mini-big bang in detectors .
well , it was friday , that &apos;s right .
if you want to know , these other peaks are also fridays .
but what about that day , that particular friday ?
well , tosh.0 forgot , a lot of blogs started writing about it .
michael j. nelson of the mystery science theater was one of the first to make a joke on twitter .
what &apos;s important is that a single person or a group of tastemakers took a point of view , shared a big audience , and they accelerated the process .
then this community of people who shared this big insider joke and started talking about it and playing around with it .
now there are 10,000 parodies of &quot; friday &quot; on youtube .
in the first seven days , there was a parody for every single week .
unlike the 20th century entertainment , the participation of the community is our way to become part of this phenomenon -- either by spreading it or by making something new .
i work on this . he calls himself atlas detector -- 44 meters wide , 22 meters in diameter .
nyan cat is animation and music in endless loop .
that &apos;s it , very simple .
this year , it was looked at almost 50 million times .
and if you think that &apos;s crazy , you should know that there &apos;s a three-hour version that &apos;s been looked at four million times .
even cats look at this video .
cats look at cats looking at this video .
it &apos;s important , the creativity that is in the internet culture of technology and geeks .
there was remixe .
somebody made an old-fashioned version of it .
and then it became international .
here &apos;s a spectacular picture of the atlas in the construction so you can see the scale .
a whole remix community shot out of the ground that made it from a stupid joke to something that we can all participate in .
today we don &apos;t just find pleasure in something , we do it .
who could have looked forward to this ?
who could have predicted double rainbow or rebecca black or nyan cat ?
what scripts could you have written in that kind of thing ?
in a world where , every minute , video is uploaded , only really can emerge unique and unexpected as the videos i mentioned .
i admit i was not particularly interested when a friend told me to look at this great video , about a guy who protests tickets in new york against bicycles .
i got a ticket because i didn &apos;t go on the bike route , but often there are disabilities that don &apos;t let you drive on the bike route .
since this was completely surprising and humorous , casey niestats was looked at the funny idea and his argument five million times .
this approach is true for anything new that we do creatively .
on september 10 , last year , the machine was first running .
and all of this leads us to the one big question ...
what does that mean ?
ohhhh .
what does that mean ?
tastemaker , creative participants , completely unexpected , are the characteristics of a new kind of media and culture that everybody has access to and that determines the audience popularity .
as i said , one of the greatest stars right now -- justin bieber -- made his early youtube .
no one has to give your ideas to green light .
and today we all feel ourselves as owners of our pop culture .
and these are not the characteristics of the old media , and they &apos;re not going to meet the media of today , but they &apos;re going to determine the conversation of the future .
thank you .
and this picture was taken by atlas .
the story is not over yet .
it &apos;s a puzzle that &apos;s still being put together .
i want to tell you about some of the pieces of the puzzle .
imagine the first piece : a man who burns his life &apos;s work .
he &apos;s a poet , a writer , a man whose whole life has been held together by the simple hope of oneness and freedom of his home .
hold him in front of the march of the communicators in saigon , as he must admit that his life was a single waste .
the words , as long as his friends , were now mocking his .
he moved back to silence .
he died , broken by history .
it caused huge levers in the control room .
he &apos;s my grandfather .
i never met him personally .
but our lives are so much more than our memories .
my grandmother never let me forget his life .
i had to make sure that it wasn &apos;t free , and it was my job to learn that history was trying to crush us , but we got through it .
the next piece of the puzzle shows how a boat is running in the early morning red quiet at sea .
my mother mai was 18 when her father died -- in an arranged marriage , with two little girls .
for her , life had set her a task : the escape of her family and a new life in australia .
it was completely excluded that it could fail .
after a four-year-old and film , saga glitt put a boat still on the lake as fishing boat is targeted .
it &apos;s a picture of the first radiation particle , which returned all the way around the lhc , then colonized with a part of the lhc to make a rain of particles on the detector .
all adults were aware of the risks .
they were terrified of pirate , rape and death .
like most adults on the boat , my mother was carrying a little poison bottle .
when i took a prisoner , my sister and i , they would have drunk themselves and my grandmother .
my first memories are from this boat -- the steady virtue of the engine , the clapping of any wave on the bug , the long and empty horizon .
i don &apos;t remember the pirates that came out many times , but they got distracted by the humility of men on our boat , or the exception of the engine that didn &apos;t want to start six hours .
but i remember the lights of the oil platform off the malayan coast , and the young man who collapsed and died , the end of the journey was too much for him , and the taste of the first apple that one of the men gave me on the platform .
no apple ever tasted like that again .
after three months in a refugee camp , we ended up in melbourne .
and the next piece of puzzle is about four women in three generations who together build a new life .
but what makes voodoo so interesting is this living relationship between the living and the dead .
in other words , when we saw this picture on september 10 , we knew that the machine works , which is a big triumph .
we settled in footscray , one of the working-class suburbs , whose population is made of immigrant layers .
unlike the old-fashioned middle class suburbs , whose existence was completely unknown to me , there was no sophisticated thinking in footscray .
the smells from the ladder belt came from the rest of the world .
and the fats of english were swapped between people who had one thing in common : they started new .
my mother was working on farms , then on a assembly line in a car factory , six days , doubling layers .
it somehow managed to find the time , to acquire english and it qualifications .
we were poor .
every dollar was divided , and it was put into more education for english and mathematics , no matter what we had to do for it , and most of the time , these were new things that always came from second hand .
two strands for school , each to cover the holes in the other .
a school uniform up to the ankles , because it had to reach six years .
i don &apos;t know if this created the biggest lever , or this , when someone went to the google side and found the front page like this .
and there were the rare but painful choirs of &quot; shooting eye , &quot; and here and there are murdering , &quot; asians , go home . &quot;
home where ?
something blew in me .
there was a meeting for reconciliation , and a quiet voice said , &quot; i &apos;m going to go out of your way . &quot;
my mother , my sister and i slept in the same bed .
my mother was exhausted every night , but we told each other about our day , and we listened to our grandmother &apos;s movements in the house .
my mother suffered from the boat from nightmares .
and it was my job to stay awake every night , until their nightmares came , so i could wake them up .
she opened a computer business , then made a cosmetic education and opened a business .
and the women came with their stories about men who didn &apos;t make change , angry and inflexible , and sorted children , trapped between two worlds .
it means that we have a cultural impact besides the scientific impact .
loans and sponsors were searched .
centers were built .
i lived in parallel worlds .
in one , i was the classic asian student who put unquestionable demands on himself .
in the other , i was involved in unsafe life , wearing tragic scars of violence , drug abuse and insulation .
but so many got help over the years .
and because of this help , i was chosen in my last year of law school as a young australian of the year .
and i was catapulted by a piece of puzzle to the next piece , and the edges didn &apos;t fit together .
tan le , anonymous inhabitant of footscray , was now tan le , refugee and social activist , who was invited to speak in places that she had never heard of , and in housing , whose existence she could never have imagined .
i was not familiar with the label .
about a week later , there was a problem with the machine that had to do with these wires here -- these golden wires here .
i didn &apos;t know how to use the brick .
i didn &apos;t know how to talk about wine .
i didn &apos;t know how to talk about anything .
i wanted to go back to the routine and the convenience of the life of an unknown suburb -- a grandmother , a mother and two daughters , who , every one of their days , closed as they &apos;ve been for 20 years , by telling each other the stories of their day and sleeping , we still have three of them in the same bed .
i told my mother i wouldn &apos;t do that .
she reminded me that i was now as old as she was when we climbed the boat .
no had never been an opportunity .
&quot; just do it , &quot; she said . &quot; and don &apos;t be what you &apos;re not . &quot;
so i talked about adolescence and education , and the neglect of the marginalized and decorated .
and the more open i spoke , the more i should tell .
these wires lead 13-thousand ampere when the machine runs on high-performance .
i met people in all of their lives , so many of them did what they loved , lived on the limits of the possible .
and even though i graduated , i realized that i couldn &apos;t find myself with a career in jura .
there had to be another piece of puzzle .
and i realized at the same time that it &apos;s okay to be an outsider , a new head , new in the picture -- and not just okay , but something you have to be grateful for , maybe a gift of the boat .
because belonging can lead so easily to the collapse of the horizon , it can mean so easy that you accept the assumptions of the environment .
i &apos;ve now gone out of my comfort zone to know that , yes , the world is breaking apart , but not the way you fear it .
possibilities that would not have been allowed were explicitly encouraged .
there was an energy , an unquestionable optimism , a strange mixture of humility and the wage .
so i followed my gut feeling .
i gathered a small team of people around me , for whom the shoe &quot; is not going to be an irresistible challenge .
now , the engineers amongst you will look at them and say , &quot; no , they don &apos;t . these are little wires . &quot;
for a year , we didn &apos;t have a cent .
at the end of every day , i cooked a huge pot of soup that we shared .
we worked till late at night .
most of our ideas were crazy , but it was a few brilliant people , and we made the breakthrough .
i made the decision to move to the united states .
after just one journey there .
my gut feeling again .
three months later , i was moved , and the adventure went on .
before i finish the talk , i want to tell you about my grandmother .
she grew up at a time when confucianism was the social norm and the local mandarin was the most important person .
they can do that because if you cool them down very far , they become so-called superconductors .
life hasn &apos;t changed for centuries .
her father died shortly after she was born .
her mother raised her on her own .
at 17 , she became the second woman of a mandarin whose mother beat her .
with no support of her husband , she worried for a sensation by bringing him to court and being an instructor in her own case , and a greater sensation than she won .
&quot; don &apos;t go , &quot; it turned out to be untrue .
i was just shooting in a hotel room in sydney when she died , 1,000 miles away in melbourne .
i looked through the shower wall , and i saw it standing on the other side .
i knew she had come to pass .
my mother called me a few minutes later .
so at minus 271 degrees , colder than the room between the stars , these wires can hold the tension .
a few days later , we went to a buddhist temple in footscray and sat around their sarg .
we told her stories and told her that we were still with her .
at midnight , the monk came and said he had to close the sarg .
my mother asked us to touch her hand .
she asked the monk , &quot; why is your hand so warm , and the rest of it is so cold ? &quot;
&quot; because they &apos;ve been holding them this morning , &quot; he said .
&quot; you didn &apos;t let them go . &quot;
if there is a band in our family , it goes through the women .
if you look at who we were and how life shaped us , we can now see that the men who might have come to our lives would have come to the jellyfish .
the defeat would have been too simple .
in one of the connections , between nine thousand magnets in the lhc , there was a factory turret .
now i &apos;d like to have my own kids , and i &apos;m still thinking about the boat .
who would ever want one ?
yes , i &apos;m afraid of privilege , of ease , of justice .
can i give you a bug in your life that drives the bold of every wave , the unbiased , steady virtue of the engine , the long horizon , that guarantees nothing ?
i don &apos;t know .
but if i could give this , and i could make it safe , i would do it .
also , tans &apos;s mother here today is in the fourth or fifth row .
i &apos;m here to share with you my photography .
is it even photography ?
because , of course , this is a picture that you can &apos;t pick up with your camera .
so the wires are heating up slightly , and 13-thousand ampans suddenly encountered electric resistance .
and yet , my interest in photography started when i got my first digital camera at the age of 15 .
i combined it with my former love of drawing , but it was a little different , because using the camera , the process was much more in planning .
and if you take a picture with a camera , the process ends when you press the trigger .
so for me , photography seemed more to be about being in the right place at the right time .
i thought everybody could do that .
so i wanted to create something else , something that the process starts when the trigger is pressed .
photographs like this : a building site along a lot of road .
but it has an unexpected twist .
and still maintain a realistic level .
or photos like this -- dark and colorful at the same time , but all with the common goal of keeping a realistic level .
the living ones give birth to the spirits .
this was the result .
when i say reality , i mean photoreality .
because , of course , it &apos;s not something that you can really capture , but i always want to make it look like it could have been in a photograph .
photographs where you have to think for a moment to find out the trick .
so it &apos;s more about capturing an idea than really a moment .
but what is the trick that makes it look realistic ?
is it about the details or the colors ?
is it about the light ?
what creates the illusion ?
sometimes the perspective is the illusion .
but ultimately , it &apos;s about how we interpret the world , and how it can be made tangible on a two-dimensional surface .
now , all of this is even more amazing if you can imagine that the magnets weigh over 20 tons and shifted by about 30 inches .
it &apos;s not what &apos;s realistic , it &apos;s what we think is realistic .
so i think the foundations are very simple .
i think of them as a puzzle of reality , where you can take different pieces and put them together to create an alternative reality .
and let me show you a simple example .
we have three perfectly imaginable physical objects that we can all identify with in a three-dimensional world .
but combined in a certain way , you can create something that still looks three-dimensional , as if it could exist .
but at the same time , we know that &apos;s not possible .
so we are overlisting our brains , because our brain just doesn &apos;t accept that it doesn &apos;t really make sense .
and i see the same process in combining photographs .
it &apos;s really just about combining different realities .
so we damaged about 50 of the magnets .
so the things that make a picture look realistic , i think it &apos;s the things that we don &apos;t think about , the things around us in our everyday lives .
but when we combine photographs , it &apos;s really important to think about it , because otherwise you just look wrong .
so i would say that there are three simple rules to follow to a realistic outcome .
as you can see , these are not three special images .
but combined , you can create something special like this .
so the first rule is that combined photos should have the same perspective .
secondly , combined photos should have the same kind of lighting .
and these two pictures meet these two demands -- shot from the same altitude and the same kind of lighting .
third , it &apos;s about making it impossible to distinguish where the individual images start and end by connecting them seamlessly .
makes it impossible to say how the photograph was actually put together .
and they had to remove what we did .
so by comparing color , contrast and brightness to the edges , adding photographic debris to the edges of the edges , like the field depth , decorated colors and disorders , we wipe the boundaries between the different images and let them look like a single photograph , even though a picture can basically contain hundreds of levels .
here &apos;s another example .
you might think that &apos;s just a landscape , and the bottom part has been manipulated .
but this picture is actually completely composed of photographs of different places .
i personally find that it &apos;s easier to create a place than to find a place , because you don &apos;t have to compromise with the ideas in your head .
but it requires a lot of planning .
and when i had this idea in the winter , i knew that it would take me several months to plan them , to find the different places for the pieces of the puzzle .
for example , the fish had been recorded on a fishery trip .
the bank is from a different place .
the underwater part comes from a quarry .
we reconditioned them , repaired them .
and yes , i even blew the house up on the island of red to make it look swedish .
to achieve a realistic outcome , it &apos;s going to go from me to planning .
i always start with a sketch , an idea .
and then it &apos;s about the combination of the different images .
and here &apos;s every piece that &apos;s very well planned .
and then if you take good images , the result can be pretty beautiful , and it can also be pretty realistic .
so there are all the tools that are there , and the only thing that limics us is our imagination .
thank you .
i &apos;d like to talk to you about why so many electronic health projects fail .
and i think the most important thing about this is that we stopped talking to our patients .
they &apos;re all back in their way now .
and one of the things that we introduced at the radboud university was to hire a major audience .
it &apos;s not particularly scientific -- it &apos;s putting a cup of coffee or tea and asking the patients , families , relatives , &quot; how is it ?
how can we help you ? &quot;
and we think we want to think that this is one of the main problems , why everyone -- maybe most of the electronic health projects fail : because we stopped listening .
this is my wlan-waage . it &apos;s a very simple thing .
it has a button , on / off .
and every morning i jump on it .
and yes , i have a task , as you might recognize .
i did my job at 95 pounds .
it works very simply : every time i jump to the scale , it also sends my data to google health .
by the end of march , the lhc will be again functional .
and they &apos;re also called off my general doctor , so that he can see where my weight problem is , not only in the moment that i need cardiological support or something , but also with a look at the past .
but there &apos;s something else .
you may know that , i have over 4,000 followers on twitter .
so every morning , i &apos;m jumping on my wlan-wage , and people are talking to me before i &apos;m sitting in the car , &quot; for lunch , just a little salt today , lucia . &quot;
but this is the nicest thing that can happen , because this is the peer pressure , the peer force , to help patients , because this could be used to obesity , or it could be used to smoking patients .
but it could also be used to get people out of their chairs , and to get them to play some kind of game together to control their health better .
next week , this is coming to the market .
there will be this little blood pressure device that you attach to an iphone or something .
and it will allow people to measure their blood pressure from home , send it to their doctor , for example , and share it with others for a little over 100 dollars .
at this point , the patients come in . they can not only take control , be captain on their own ship , but they can also help us with health care in the face of the challenges that we face , and the cost explosion of health care , double-demand , and so on .
we &apos;re going to turn it on , and we expect to be able to collect the first data in june or july , and continue our journey to figure out what the building blocks of the universe are .
make methods that are easy to use and start to hug patients in the team .
and you can do that through these methods , but also through crowdsourcing .
and one of the things that we &apos;ve done , i want to share with you through a short video .
we have all the navigation systems in our cars .
maybe even in our cell phones .
we know exactly where all the atms are around maastricht .
we know another one where all the gas stations are .
and sure , we can find fast food chains .
but where would the next aed be to help this patient ?
we asked around , and nobody knew .
now , of course , in a way , these accidents are restoring the debate around the value of science and engineering at such boundaries . it &apos;s easy to reject something like this .
nobody knew where the next life-saving aed was at that moment .
so what did we do ? we did crowdsourcing in the netherlands .
we built a website and asked a crowd of people , &quot; if you see an aed , please share with us where he is , &quot; because sometimes he is closed during business , of course .
and over 10,000 aeds have been reported in the netherlands .
the next step was to find the apps for it .
and we created an ipad app .
we &apos;ve developed an app for layar , extended reality to find these aeds .
and if you &apos;re in a city like maastricht and someone collapses , you can use your iphone , and in the next few weeks , your microsoftware cell phone to find the next aed that can save lives .
and from today , we want to introduce this not only as aed4u , as the product calls itself , but also as aed4us .
and we want to bring this to a global level .
i think the fact that it &apos;s so hard to grasp the fact that we reach beyond our limits is the value of things like the lhc .
and we ask our colleagues around the world , from other universities , to help us behave like knot points , to crowdsource these aeds around the world .
and if you &apos;re on vacation and someone collapses , whether it &apos;s your own relativity or anyone else , you can find an aed like this .
the other thing we want to ask is that companies around the world are helping us to confirm these aeds .
these could be copper services , for example , or technicians , just to make sure that the aed is still in place .
please help us do that , and try to improve health not just a little bit , but to take control of it .
thank you .
today i &apos;m going to report unexpected discoveries .
i work in the solar technology industry .
and my little startup wants us to force ourselves to protect the environment by ...
... it &apos;s paying attention to crowdsourcing .
the spirits can be cleaned up by the great water , answers to the rhythm of dance , to deny the soul of the living temporarily , so that the acolyth becomes a brief shiny moment to the god .
i &apos;m going to leave my closing words to an english scientist . humphrey davy , who , as i suppose , defended the useless experiments of his teaching , was michael faraday , said , &quot; nothing is so dangerous for the development of the human mind to assume that our scientific ideas are finite , that there are no mysteries in nature that our triumphs are complete , and that there are no new worlds to conquer . &quot;
here &apos;s a short video of what we do .
oh . a moment .
it may take until it &apos;s loaded .
now -- we can just jump through this -- i &apos;ll just jump the video instead ...
no .
that &apos;s not ...
okay .
solar technology is ...
oh , my time is over ?
okay . thank you very much .
thank you .
so a few years ago , i started a program to get the stars in technology and design to take a year off and work in an environment that &apos;s pretty much everything they actually hate , we &apos;ve let them work in government .
the program is called &quot; code for america , &quot; and it &apos;s a little bit like the freaks peace scorps for geeks .
we select some fellows every year , and we let them work with city management .
instead of sending them to the third world , we send them to the city hall .
and they developed great apps there , working with urban workers .
but what they really do is to show what &apos;s possible today with technology .
so they meet al .
al is a hydrant in the city of boston .
here it looks like he &apos;s looking for a date , but what he &apos;s really looking for is somebody who &apos;s freeing him up when he &apos;s locked in , because he knows he &apos;s not very good at the fire fight when he &apos;s covered by a meter of snow .
how did he get to look for help in this particular way ?
i &apos;m a writer .
we had a team of fellows in boston last year , the code for america program .
they were there in february , and it &apos;s done a lot last february .
and they realized that the city never slammed these hydrants freely .
but a particular fellow , a man named erik michael ober , noticed something else , and that was that the residents freaked the sidewalks , right in front of these parts .
so he did what any good developer would do , he wrote an app .
it &apos;s a nice little app where you can adopt a hydrant .
you agreed to shake it freely when it fails .
if you do that , you can give him a name , and he called the first al .
if you don &apos;t do that , somebody can take it away .
so there &apos;s a nice little game dynamic .
writing books is my profession , but of course it &apos;s more than that .
this is a modest little app .
it &apos;s probably the smallest of the 21 apps that the fellows wrote last year .
but it does something that no other government technology does .
it spreads rapidly .
there &apos;s this guy in the i.t. division of the city of honolulu who saw that he could use this app , not for snow , but for the citizens to adopt tsunami sirens .
it &apos;s very important that these tsunami sirens work , but people steal the batteries .
so he got the citizens to check them .
and then seattle decided to use the app to get the citizens to clean the clogged gullys .
and chicago has just introduced them so that people can open up the buerie when it snows .
we now know nine cities that are planning to use this app .
it &apos;s also my big , lifelong love and fascination .
and it &apos;s spread freely , organic , of course .
if you know anything about government technology , you know it doesn &apos;t usually work that way .
the software collection typically takes a few years .
we had a team that worked on a project in boston last year that took three people two and a half months .
it was about a way that parents can figure out what are the right public schools for their children .
we were told later that if it were to go over the normal channels , it would have taken over two years , and it would have cost over two million dollars .
and that &apos;s nothing yet .
there &apos;s a project in the california justice project that has now cost the taxpayer two billion dollars , and it doesn &apos;t work .
and there are projects like this at every level of government .
so an app that &apos;s written in a couple of days , and then it spread from seldom is a kind of shot in front of the bug to the institution of the government .
and i don &apos;t expect that to ever change .
it shows how the government could work better -- no longer like a private company , how many people think it should .
and not even like a technology company , but rather like the internet itself .
and that means free access , that means open and productive .
and that &apos;s important .
but more importantly , this app is that it represents a new generation that is tackling the problem of government -- not as the problem of a sale institution , but as a problem of collective action .
and this is a very good news , because it turns out that we &apos;re very good at collective action with digital technology .
now there &apos;s a big community of people who are building the tools that we need to effectively put together things .
it &apos;s not just &quot; code for america &quot; fellows , there are hundreds of people all over the country who stand up and write government apps every day in their own communities .
they didn &apos;t give up the government .
they &apos;re terribly frustrated with her , but they don &apos;t complain about it , they repair it .
but recently , something weird has happened in my life and my career that has made me completely rethink my relationship with this work .
and these people know something that we &apos;ve lost from our eyes .
and that &apos;s when you forget all of your feelings about politics and the line of work and all the other things that we &apos;re really excited about , is government , in the essence , in the words of tim o &apos;reilly , &quot; what we do together that we can &apos;t do alone . &quot;
today , a lot of people have given up the government .
and when you &apos;re one of those people , i ask you to think about it , because things change .
politics doesn &apos;t change ; the government is in change .
and because the government ultimately exhausts its power out of us -- remember , &quot; we the people ? &quot; -- as we think about it , it will affect how this change happens .
i didn &apos;t know very much about government when i started this program .
and like a lot of people , i thought the government is all about choosing people into an amt .
now , after two years , i &apos;ve come to the conclusion that it &apos;s all about communities , and it &apos;s all about thylacines .
this is the call center for service and information .
this strange event was that i wrote a book recently -- a biography called pray , love -- that , unlike all my previous books , went out into the world for some reason and became a big mega-event , international bestseller thing .
that &apos;s where you usually come out when you call in your city 311 .
if you ever have the opportunity to work in your urban call center , like our fellow scott silverman as part of the program -- in fact , they all do -- you &apos;ll see that the people who call the government for many different problems , including that there &apos;s a thylacine in their house .
so scott gets this fruit .
he types &quot; thylacine &quot; into the official database .
and he doesn &apos;t really have an idea . he starts with the animal beginner .
and finally , he says , &quot; look , can you just open up all the doors in your house and play very loud music and see if the livestock is peeling ? &quot;
and that worked . applause for scott .
but that wasn &apos;t the end of the thylacines .
boston doesn &apos;t just have a call center .
it has an app , a web and cell phone app , called citizens connect .
the result is that , no matter where i come from , i &apos;m treated as if i &apos;m refused to the demise .
we didn &apos;t write this app .
this is the work of very smart people at the office of the new urban mechanics in boston .
one day -- this is an actual report -- it came in , &quot; thylacine in my trash bin . can &apos;t tell if it &apos;s dead .
how do i get them away ? &quot;
but what happens to citizens connect is different .
scott was talking from human to human .
but on citizens connect , it &apos;s all public , so everybody can see it .
and in this case , it saw a neighbor .
and the next post that we got was , &quot; i went over there , found the trash bin behind the house .
thylacines ? yes . alive ? yap .
seriously -- the demise !
turned the trash bin on the side . went home .
good night , sweet thylacine . &quot;
pretty simple .
this is great . this is where the digital hits the physical .
and it &apos;s also a good example of how the government is getting into crowdsourcing .
but it &apos;s also a great example of government as a platform .
and i don &apos;t necessarily mean a technical definition of the platform .
i &apos;m talking about a platform for people to help themselves and to help others .
a citizen helped another citizen , but the government played a central role here .
she connected these two people .
so the voodoists like to say , &quot; you white go to church and talk about god .
for example , they &apos;re very concerned about me , and they say , &quot; don &apos;t you fear that they &apos;re never going to overcome that success ?
and you could have connected them to government services if they were needed , but a neighbor is a far better and cheaper alternative to government services .
if one neighbor helps the other , we strengthen our communities .
if we call the animal beginner , it costs a lot of money .
one of the most important things is that we have to remember , is that government is not the same as politics .
and most people understand this , but they think one is the input of the other .
that our contribution to the system is the choice .
how often did we choose a political leader -- and sometimes we used a lot of energy to choose a new political leader -- and then we reject , and we expect the government , to reflect our values and to fulfill our needs , and then not much has changed ?
this is because the government is like a farther ocean , and politics is the top 15 inches .
and what &apos;s below that is what we call bureaucracy .
and we use this word with such contempt .
are you not afraid that you write on your whole life and never create a book that anyone in the world is interested in ? never again ?
but it &apos;s this contempt that makes this thing that we own , and that we pay for , be something that works against us , something else , and then we set ourselves up .
people seem to think , politics is sexy .
if we want this institution to work for us , we have to make bureaucracy sexy .
because that &apos;s where the actual government work is happening .
we need to rely on the government &apos;s machinery .
so the occupation movement did it .
did you see these guys ?
it &apos;s a group of troubled citizens who wrote a very detailed 325-page report that &apos;s an answer to the sec-memo about the financial reform act .
this is not political , this is bureaucratically active .
now , for those of us who have given up the government , it &apos;s time for us to think about the world that we want to leave to our children .
okay , that &apos;s really courageous .
you have to imagine the enormous challenges that they have to face .
do we really believe that we can achieve what we need to do without improving the one institution that can act on behalf of all of us ?
a government is absolutely necessary , but it has to be more efficient .
the good news is that technology makes it possible to promote the function of government in a way that can actually achieve something by strengthening society .
and there &apos;s a generation that has grown up with the internet , and it knows that it &apos;s not that hard to do things together , you just have to build the right systems .
now the average age of our field lows is 28 , so i &apos;m , unfortunately , almost a generation older than most of you .
this is a generation that grew up seeing its voice for granted .
they &apos;re not fighting this battle that we &apos;re all fighting about who is allowed to speak ; they &apos;re all allowed to speak .
you can make your opinion , on every channel at any time , and you do it .
so , when you &apos;re faced with the problem of government , don &apos;t worry so much about using your voices .
but it would be worse if i didn &apos;t remember that over 20 years ago , when i first told a teenager that i wanted to be a writer , i was confronted with the same kind of anxiety response .
they use their hands .
they use their hands to write applications that improve government &apos;s work .
and these apps let &apos;s use our hands to improve our communities .
this could be to open up a hydrant , to harbor , to turn a trash can with a thylacine .
and sure , we could have released these hydrants all the time , and a lot of people do that .
but these apps are like little digital memories that we &apos;re not just consumers , and we &apos;re not just consumers of the government who pay taxes and receive performance .
we are more than that , we are citizens .
and we &apos;re not going to improve government until we improve the citizenship .
so the question i have for all of you here : when it comes to the big , important things that we need to do together , all together , are we just going to be a lot of voices , or are we going to be a lot of hands ?
thank you .
people said , &quot; are you not afraid to succeed ? &quot;
i usually have a role in explaining to people how wonderful the new technologies that have come up are going to be , and i thought , since i &apos;m here with friends , i would tell you what i really think . and also try to look back and understand what &apos;s going on here , with these incredible jumps forward , which are so fast that we can barely keep up .
i &apos;m going to start by showing you a single , boring slide .
... could you just show the slide for a second .
this is a slide that i randomly chose from my folder .
i &apos;m not talking about the details of the slide , but rather the general shape .
this slide shows data from an analysis of us about the performance of risc processors compared to the performance of a local area networks .
the interesting thing here is that this slide , like some others , which we often meet in our field , is a kind of semi-logarithmic curve .
in other words , every step here is a potential on the scale of performance .
and this is a novelty that we need to use this guy on semi-logarithmic curves in the field of technology .
something very strange happens here .
are you not afraid that the humiliation of a statement is killing you ?
this is basically what i &apos;m going to talk about here .
so , if you could turn on the lights again .
a little bit more bright , because i &apos;m going to draw something on the paper here .
now , why do we draw graphs in technology on semi-logarithmic curves ?
the reason for that is , if i were to draw it on a normal curve , where , say , these are the years , so the timeline of a way , and this is a arbitrary measure of the technology that i want to show with a graph , the graph will be silly .
they look like this .
and that doesn &apos;t tell us much .
now , if i want to record another technology , let &apos;s say a transportation technology , it would be very unreasonable on the semi-logarithmic scale , in the form of a flat line .
but if something like this happens , it changes the qualitative circumstances .
so if the transportation technology were to go as fast as the microprocessor technology would go , we could go into a taxi in 30 seconds , and in 30 seconds we would be in tokyo .
are you not afraid that you &apos;re going to go after this craft for your life and never come out of it , and that you &apos;re going to die on a snowflake dreams -- your mouth filled with the bitter ashes of failure ?
but that &apos;s not so fast .
this has never happened before in the history of technology development , this kind of recursive growth , through which the scale increases exponentially every few years .
now the question i want to ask you is , if you look at these exponential curves , you see , they don &apos;t go on forever .
it &apos;s not possible that everything is evolving forever and forever as fast as it is now .
there are two options .
either it &apos;s going to be a classic s-curve like this , until something completely new comes in , or it &apos;s going to happen here .
that &apos;s kind of what it is .
now , i &apos;m an optimist , so i think something like this is going to happen here .
if that &apos;s true , that means we &apos;re in the middle of a transition right now .
we &apos;re here on this line , in a transition from the world that we have now to a new kind of world .
something like that , you know .
so the question i want to ask , and i often ask myself , is , how is this new world going to be ?
what is this new state that is slowly accepting the world ?
because the transition seems to be very , very confusing when you &apos;re in the middle .
when i was a child , there was the future somewhere in 2000 , and people would often talk about what would happen in 2000 .
now we have a conference here where people talk about the future , and you realize that the future is still in 2000 .
we &apos;re not going to go further than that .
so in other words , the future has shrunk by a year since i was in the world every year .
i think the reason for this is that we realize that something is going on .
the transition is happening . we can all feel it .
and we know that right now it just doesn &apos;t make sense to try and look at 30 or 50 years into the future , because everything will be so different that a simple mainframe of what we &apos;re doing is simply not making sense .
the answer -- the short answer to all of these questions is yes .
now i want to talk about what this might be , this transition that we &apos;re in right now .
to do this , i &apos;m going to first talk about some other things that really have nothing to do with technology or computers .
because i think in order to really understand this , we need to take a step back and look at the thing on a longer scale of time .
and i want to look at this on the time scale of the earth &apos;s life .
i think the whole picture makes sense when you divide it into a few billion steps .
so let &apos;s go back , and it &apos;s 2.5 billion years , and the earth was a big , sterile stone clump with lots of chemicals floating on it .
now , if you look at the way these chemicals were organized , it gives us a pretty good picture of how they did that .
i also think there are theories that are beginning to understand how it all started with rna , but i &apos;m going to tell you a simplified story of that , which is that at that time , little oil droplet was blowing around , which had different kinds of recipes for chemicals .
some of these oil droplet contains a special combination of chemicals that allowed them to integrate other chemicals from outside and grow .
everybody who was like this started to divide .
yeah , i &apos;m afraid of all these things .
these little oil droplet were the most primitive cell form in the sense .
but these oil droplet were not alive in the sense of today , because every single one of them was just a small , random recipe of chemicals .
and every time it divided , they &apos;ve spread to unequal quantities of chemicals in it .
so each droplet was a little different .
in fact , the droplet grew , which had one for the growth of optimal composition faster than others and integrated more and more chemicals from the outside and divided faster .
so these were tilting to survive longer , and they were expanding in a bigger scale .
so this is just a very simple chemical form of life , but what &apos;s more interesting is that when these drops learned a trick about abstraction .
in some way that we don &apos;t quite understand , these drops have learned the ability to write down information .
they &apos;ve learned to store the recipe of the cell as information in a particular chemical form , which we call dna .
in other words , in this mindless , evolutionary way , they found a way that allowed them to write down what they were made of , so that this information could be stored and copied .
we dance in the temple and we become god . &quot;
and i always had that .
and the amazing thing about this is that this way of storing information over the time of 2.5 billion years that it was created was the same .
in fact , the recipe for us is our genes , from the exact same code and the same type of writing .
and that is that every being uses the exact same letters and the same code .
we are so far that , just for pleasure , we can write things in this code .
and here i have 100 micrograms of a white powder , which i &apos;m trying to keep in the airports from security staff .
there &apos;s -- what i &apos;ve done is i &apos;ve taken this code -- the code is made up of regular letters that we use to symbolize -- and i &apos;ve written my business card on a piece of dna and i &apos;ve amplified it 10 sophi22 times .
so if somebody wants a hundred million copies of my business card , i have enough for everyone in this room and even for everyone in the world , and it &apos;s right here .
if i had actually been a selfish , i would have written it on a virus and released it into the room .
so what &apos;s the next step ?
the dedication of dna was an interesting step .
and i &apos;m afraid of a lot more things that no one would ever know .
and that provided these cells -- that made them happy for another billion years .
but then another very interesting step happened where things became completely different , and that is that these cells started communicating and exchanging information , so that communities came from cells .
i don &apos;t know if you knew that , but bacteria can actually exchange their dna .
that &apos;s why , for example , the consistency of antibiotics is growing .
some bacteria have figured out how to stay away from penicillin and put this information together with other bacteria into the dna , and now we have a lot of bacteria that are resistant to penicillin , because the bacteria communicate with each other .
this communication now allowed the reasons of communities that were in a certain sense in the same boat ; they were synergetic .
so they either survived together , or they went down together , and that meant that if a community was successful , all the individuals of the community were repeated more often and preferred by evolution .
the transition point is now where these communities are so close together that they decided to write the recipe for the whole community into a drawing chain on the dna .
and the next interesting phase took about another billion years .
at this point , we have multi-cellular communities , communities of many different cell types , which are together as a single organism .
like algae -- and other frightening things .
in fact , we are such a multi-celled community .
we have a lot of cells that are no longer on their own .
your skin cells are useless without heart cells , muscle cells , brain cells and so on .
so these communities started to evolve , so that the level at which evolution happened was no longer the single cell , but the whole cell community , which we call organism .
the next step was happening within these communities .
the cell communities began to abstract information again .
and they developed special structures that did nothing but process information within the organism .
and these are the neural structures .
so the neurons are the information processing system that these cell communities have built .
they started to train specialists within the community , special structures , which were responsible for learning , understanding and capturing information .
but , when it comes to writing , i &apos;ve been thinking about it recently and wondering , why ?
and this was the brain and the nervous system of these communities .
this gave them an evolutionary advantage .
because at this point , an individual -- learning happened within the time period of a single organism &apos;s lifespan , instead of this evolutionary time .
so an organism could learn , for example , not to eat a certain fruit , because it tasted bad and made it sick , the last time he ate it .
this could happen within the lifetime of a single organism , whereas before that , hundreds of thousands of years were needed , because this information had to be learned evolutionarily by the individuals who died because of this fruit , because these information processing structures were not there yet .
so the nervous system has the evolutionary process with these special information structures , because evolution has now happened within an individual .
it could happen within a time learning framework .
what happened then is that the individual organisms found a way to communicate with each other .
for example , the most sophisticated version of this kind of communication is human language .
it &apos;s a pretty amazing invention when you think about it .
is that reasonable ?
i have a very complicated , unordered and confused idea in my head .
i &apos;m sitting here and basically giving grunting sounds from me , hoping to create a similar confused idea in your head that has a certain similarity with my original idea .
so we take something very complicated , we turn it into sound , a sequence of sound , and we produce something very complicated in the head of others .
so this allows us to work again as a unified organism .
and what we &apos;ve actually done , we , humanity , is we &apos;ve started abstracting .
we go through the same stages that multi-cell organisms have gone through -- the abstraction of our methods of how we hold data , present it .
for example , the invention of language was a small step in that direction .
telephones , computers , video obstacles , cd-roms and so on are all our specialized mechanisms that we built in our community to be able to handle this information .
and it connects all of us together to something that is much bigger , and is able to evolve faster than we have been .
so today , evolution can happen in the time period of microseconds .
is it logical that someone should be expected to be afraid to do the work that they feel like they &apos;re calling ?
you also saw tys &apos; little evolutionary example of where he showed a little bit of evolution in the convolution program , right in front of your eyes .
so now we &apos;ve reduced the time scales .
the first steps in history that i told you took a billion years per piece .
the next steps , like the nervous system and the brain , took a few hundred million years .
then the next steps , like language and so on , took less than a million years .
and these next steps , like electronics , seem to take just a few decades .
the process feeds itself and , i think , auto-catalytic is the word for it -- if something increases its speed of change .
the more it changes , the faster it changes .
and i think that &apos;s what we see here in this explosive curve .
we see the process that feeds itself .
and what &apos;s going on with the creative enterprises that they make us uncertain about each other &apos;s mental state -- in a way that other professions don &apos;t do ?
i live professionally from building computers , and i know that i can &apos;t use the mechanism that i use to build computers without the recent advances in computer technology .
my current activity is to design objects with such a high complexity that it &apos;s impossible for me to design them in the traditional sense .
i don &apos;t know what every single transistor does in the compound machine .
it has billions of these .
what i do instead , and what the designers of thinking machines do is , we think at a certain level of abstraction , we give it over to the machine , and the machine makes it something that goes far beyond our ability , better and faster than we could ever do .
and it does it in part with methods that we don &apos;t even really understand so far .
one way that &apos;s particularly interesting , and which i &apos;ve used a lot lately , is evolution itself .
and we &apos;re going to install an evolutionary process in the machine , which is going on in the microseconds .
so to give you an example , in the most extreme cases , we can create a program that emerges from random instructions .
we say , &quot; computers , please generate a hundred million random sequences of instructions .
my father , for example , was a chemist , and i can &apos;t remember a situation in his 40 years as a chemist , where he was asked if he was afraid to be a chemist .
now , please lead all of these random instructions , run out of all the programs , and eventually pick the ones that are the closest to my prescription . &quot;
so in other words , i first define what i want .
let &apos;s say i want to sort numbers , that would be a simple example that i &apos;ve used for this .
so find programs that can be the most likely number .
of course , the chance in random instructions is very small , that by chance , they &apos;re going to sort numbers , so probably none of the instructions will actually do this .
but one of them might be lucky to put two numbers in the right order .
now i say , &quot; computers , now take the 10 percent of the sequences that have come next to me .
store these off , delete the rest .
now , all the remaining ones that the numbers have best sorted .
and it &apos;s with a method of recombination , analog to reproduce . &quot;
with your chemist blockage , john -- how do you deal with it ?
take two programs , and they produce children through the exchange of their subroutines , and the kids inherit the features of the subroutines of the two programs .
so now i have a new generation of programs that have come from combinations of programs that have come a little closer to the prescriptions than others .
say , &quot; please repeat this process . &quot;
evaluate it again .
maybe lead some mutations .
and try that again with another generation .
all these generations take a few milliseconds .
and so i can run through an evolution over millions of years in the computer within a few minutes , or in more complicated cases , a few hours .
finally , i get programs that can perfectly sorrow numbers .
in fact , these programs are so much more efficient than any program i could have written by hand .
it just didn &apos;t occur , you know ?
when i look at these programs , i can &apos;t tell you how they work .
i tried to understand them .
it &apos;s worthy and strange programs .
but they do the job .
i know , and i &apos;m sure you &apos;re doing the job because you &apos;re from a series of hundreds of thousands of programs that have done the job .
because their life depended on whether they did the job right .
i sat in a 747 with marvin minsky , and he pulled out a map and he said , &quot; oh look . look at that .
it says , &quot; this airplane is made up of hundreds of thousands of little bits that work together to make your flight safer . &apos; doesn &apos;t that make you more confident ? &quot;
we know that an development process is not optimal when it gets too complicated .
so we &apos;re starting to rely on computers for a process that is very different from classical engineering .
and because you &apos;re obsessed , you &apos;re taken by the mind . how can you harm you ?
but to be fair -- the group of chemists , over the centuries , did not get the reputation of alcohol addict manic depressed people .
it allows us to do things with a much higher complexity than the normal methods would allow us to produce .
and yet , we don &apos;t quite understand the possibilities of this yet .
so , in a sense , technology is overwhelming us .
we &apos;re now using these programs to make the computers much faster , so that we &apos;re able to do these processes even faster .
so there &apos;s a feedback .
it gets faster and faster , and i think that &apos;s why it seems so confusing .
because all these new technologies today are feeding themselves .
we &apos;re going to pick up .
we &apos;ve come to a point where analog is at the time when a cell organisms have evolved into multi-cell organisms .
so we &apos;re the amoebas , and we can &apos;t quite make up what the hell we &apos;re actually creating here .
but we writers seem to have this kind of call , but not just the writers , but the creatives of all genres , seem to have this call , mentally unstable .
we &apos;re in the middle of this transition point .
but i really believe that something else is coming after us .
i find it very humbly to say that we are the end product of evolution .
and i think we all here are part of the creation of whatever comes next .
now , the lunch is up before , and i think i &apos;m going to stop here now , before i &apos;m selected .
my story starts right here in rajasthan , about two years ago .
i was under the starry sky in the desert with sufi singer mukhtiar ali .
we talked about the fact that nothing has changed since the age of the ancient indian epos &quot; mahabharata . &quot;
if we wanted to travel in those days , we would jump into a car and swirl across the sky .
now we &apos;re doing this with airplanes .
all you have to do is look at the bitter death numbers of really great minds just from the 20th century , the young and often by their own hand died .
at the time , when the great indian warrior prince of arjuna was allowed , he took a bow , shot in the ground and water .
now we &apos;re doing this with drills and machines .
we came to the conclusion that magic and magic were replaced by machines .
that made me really sad .
i got a little scared of technology .
it was frightening to me that i could lose the ability to enjoy the sunset without a camera and without tweet to my friends .
i found that technology should make magic possible and not kill .
when i was a little girl , my grandfather gave me his little silver pocket clock .
this piece of 50 years old technology became the most magical thing for me .
it became a golden access to a world full of pirates and unfortunate ships and images in my mind .
and even those who didn &apos;t actually do suicid , seemed to have been really neglected by their talents .
i felt like our send clocks and cameras were dreaming about it .
they kept us from being inspired .
and so i went to the world of technology to see how i could use it to make magic , rather than killing .
at 16 , i started illustrating books .
when i saw the ipad , i saw it as a device for storytelling that could connect readers around the world .
it can know how we hold it .
it can know where we are .
it brings together images and text , and animation , sound and touch .
storytelling is increasingly using more and more senses .
but what do we do with this ?
norman mailer said just before he died in his last interview : every one of my books killed me a little bit further .
i &apos;m just going to khoya , an interactive ipad app .
it says , &quot; put your fingers on every light . &quot;
and so -- here it says , &quot; this box belongs ... &quot; i write my name .
and from me , i become a character in the book .
again and again , a letter falls down for me -- and the ipad knows where i live -- it &apos;s really addressing me .
the child in me is really excited about these possibilities .
i talked a lot about magic .
i mean , not magic and dragon , but the magic of childhood , the ideas that we all had as children .
fireflies in a glass i always found very exciting .
this is how you have to tip the ipad and leave the fireflies out .
an extraordinary statement that you can make about your life &apos;s work .
and they were lighting the way through the rest of the book .
another idea that fascinated me as a child is that a whole galaxy can be put into a single murmur .
and so every book and world is going to be a little murmur that i &apos;m going to move here to the magic device in the device .
and this opens up a map .
fantasybooks have always had maps , but these cards were static .
this map grows and glows and serves for guidance in the rest of the book .
it also shows up in other places of the book .
i go in here .
it &apos;s also important for me to create something that is indian , but it &apos;s also very timely .
these are the apsaras .
but we don &apos;t even shrink when we hear somebody say that , because we &apos;ve known this kind of statement for so long , somehow we have the idea that we have so internally and collectively accepted that creativity and suffering are kind of naturally related , and that art , at the end , always leads to the soul .
we &apos;ve all heard of feen and nymph , but how many people outside india know their indian colleagues , the apsaras ?
the poor apsaras had caught thousands of years in indras chambers in an old bold book .
and we bring them back , in a contemporary story for children .
a story that confronts new issues , like the environmental crisis .
the environmental crisis , a big problem of the last 10 years , is that kids are sitting in their rooms , on their computers , without going out .
but now , with mobile technology , we can take our kids into the natural world with their technology .
in an interaction of the book , you &apos;re sent to find a search , and you have to go out and collect images of natural objects with the ipad &apos;s camera .
as a child , i had collections of sticks , rocks , tiles and shells .
somehow , the kids don &apos;t do it anymore .
this childhood ritual is brought back . you have to go out to take a picture of a flower in a chapter and tag it .
the question i want to ask everyone here today is , is this idea completely fine for you ?
in another chapter , you have to photograph and tag a piece of tree mri .
so you actually create a digital collection of photographs that you can then put online .
a child in london shows the picture of a fox and says , &quot; oh , i &apos;ve seen a fool today . &quot;
a child in india says , &quot; i &apos;ve seen a monkey today . &quot;
this creates a kind of social network around a digital collection of photographs that you actually took .
there are a variety of ways of connecting the world and technology together .
in the next book , we &apos;re planning an interaction where you use the video of the ipad , and through augmented reality , we see an animation of 11 that appear on a plant in front of the house .
at one point , the screen is filled with leaves .
you have to make the sound of the wind , blow it away and read the rest of the book .
we all move towards a world where the forces of technology can get closer and closer to the magic and technology .
do you feel comfortable with it ? because if you look at one centimeter away , i don &apos;t feel comfortable with this notion at all .
we use the energy of the sun .
we bring our kids and we get closer to the natural world and to the magic , fun and the love of our childhood through the simple medium of a story .
thank you .
this is really an extraordinary honor for me .
i spend most of my time with people in examinative , prison or death cells .
i spend most of my time with the most socially weakest in the social settlements and in places where there is a lot of hopelessness .
to be here at ted , to see and to hear how stimulating that is , has given me a lot of power .
in the short time here , i realized one thing : ted has an identity .
you can say things that have influence around the world .
and sometimes , when something comes to ted , it gets a meaning and a force that doesn &apos;t otherwise have .
i find them disgusting .
i say that because i think identity is very important .
we &apos;ve seen some fantastic presentations .
i think we &apos;ve learned that the words of a teacher matter , but that the words of a dedicated teacher are particularly meaningful .
as a doctor , you can do good . but as a care doctor , you can do more .
and so i want to talk about the power of identity .
i didn &apos;t learn this in my work , by the way , as a lawyer .
i learned this from my grandmother .
i became big in a family , a traditional african household dominated by a matriarch , and this matriarch was my grandmother .
she was a batch , strong woman , she had an effect .
she had the last word in every family argument .
look at these amazing demonstrations : voodoo acolyths in a trancestate , the glowing coal without burn , an amazing illustration of the ability of the mind to influence the body in a way that it holds when it &apos;s put into a state of extreme arousal .
and i find it dangerous . and i don &apos;t want to watch it be taken into the next century .
she was also the starting point of many arguments in our family .
she was the daughter of a slave family .
their parents were born in virginia in the 1840s .
she was born in 1880 , and the experience of slavery shaped her worldview very much .
my grandmother was strong , but she was also loving .
when i met her as a little boy , she came up to me and hugged me .
she pushed me so hard that i could hardly breathe . then she let me go .
one or two hours later , when i met her , she came up to me and said , &quot; bryan , do you feel my hug ? &quot;
and when i said , &quot; no , &quot; she hugged me again . if i said &quot; yes , &quot; she left me alone .
she was something that made that you always wanted to be close to her .
i think it &apos;s better if we encourage our great creative heritage .
the only problem was that she had 10 children .
my mother was the youngest of her 10 children .
sometimes , if i wanted to spend time with her , it was hard to get her attention .
my cousins were all around .
i remember i had to be eight or nine that i woke up one morning and i went to the living room , all my cousins were going around .
my grandmother was sitting at the end of the room , staring at me .
first of all , i thought that was a game .
i looked at her and smiled , but she looked very serious .
this was 15 or 20 minutes , and then she stood up and she came over to me , and she took me in her hand , and she said , &quot; come on , bryan . you and i , we have to talk . &quot;
i remember it as if it was yesterday .
and i definitely know that for me , in my situation , it would be very dangerous to start to swallow this dark path of suspect , in particular , in the circumstance that i &apos;m in my career right now .
i will never forget it .
she took me out and said , &quot; bryan , i &apos;m going to tell you something , but you have to promise you &apos;re not going to say it . &quot;
i said , &quot; promise , oma . &quot;
she said , &quot; honesty ? &quot; i said , &quot; yes . &quot;
she sat down , and she looked at me , and she said , &quot; i want you to know that i watched you . &quot;
she said , &quot; i think you &apos;re something special . &quot;
she said , &quot; i think you can do anything you want to do . &quot;
i will never forget that .
then she said , &quot; you just have to promise me three things , bryan . &quot;
i said , &quot; ok , oma . &quot;
that means -- look , i &apos;m pretty young . i &apos;m only about 40 years old .
she said , &quot; first of all , you &apos;ll love your mom . &quot;
she said , &quot; your mom is my baby , and you have to promise that you will always care about her . &quot;
i adored my mother , so i said , &quot; yes , oma , i &apos;m going to do that . &quot;
and then she said , &quot; next , you know , you &apos;ll always do the right thing , &quot; even though it &apos;s hard to do the right thing . &quot;
i thought , and i said , &quot; yes , oma . i promise it . &quot;
finally , she said , &quot; the last thing you have to promise me is , &quot; you will never drink alcohol . &quot;
well , i was nine years old , and so i said , &quot; yes , oma . i promise it . &quot;
i grew up in the country , in the old , rural south , and i have a brother who is a year older and a year of younger sister .
when i was about 14 or 15 , my brother came home one day and took this sixpack beer and grabbed my sister and me and went to the forest with us .
we were just albering around there as much as we could .
i have maybe another 40 years of work in me .
then he took a swallow of beer , and he offered to my sister one , and she took it , and then she offered me one .
i said , &quot; no , no , no . ok . just do you . i don &apos;t want a beer . &quot;
my brother said , &quot; well , do . today we do that , you do everything else we do .
i had something , your sister had something . go , drink a beer . &quot;
i said , &quot; i don &apos;t want to . just do it . do it . &quot;
my brother stared at me .
he said , &quot; what &apos;s going on with you ? now drink something . &quot;
then he looked at me in my face and said , &quot; oh no , you &apos;re not still going to be crazy because of the conversation with grandmother ? &quot;
i said , &quot; what are you talking about ? &quot;
he said , &quot; oma tells all the grandchildren that they are special . &quot;
and it &apos;s extremely likely that everything that i &apos;m going to write from now on is going to be reviewed by the world as the work that came from the success of my last book , right ?
i was devastated .
i &apos;m going to tell you something .
i probably shouldn &apos;t .
this may be transmitted publicly .
i &apos;m 52 years old , and i confess that i &apos;ve never drunk a drop of alcohol .
i &apos;m not saying that because i think it &apos;s virtuous . i &apos;m saying that because identity means power .
if we create the right kind of identity , we can tell the people around us things that they don &apos;t believe first .
we can get them to do things that they thought they couldn &apos;t do .
of course , my grandmother would say to all of her grandchildren that they were something special .
my grandfather was in prison during the prohibition .
i say it straight , because we &apos;re all kind of friends here now -- it &apos;s very likely that my greatest success is behind me .
my uncles died of alcohol infected diseases .
and she believed that these were the topics that we had to take care of .
i tried to say something about our judicial system .
this country is different from 40 years ago .
in 1972 , 300,000 people were in prison and prison .
today , it &apos;s 2.3 million .
the united states today has the highest incarceration rate in the world .
seven million people are unleashed to promote , or with conditions of punishment .
in my opinion , mass incarceration has fundamentally changed our world .
in socially weak and black parts of the population , there is despair and hopelessness , because of these changes .
oh , jesus , what a thought !
one out of three male black men between 18 and 30 is in prison , in prison , released to proof , or in conditions of punishment .
in urban communities all over the country -- from los angeles to philadelphia , baltimore to washington -- 50 to 60 percent of all black young men are either abandoned in prison , in prison , in proven , or in conditions of punishment .
but our system is not only shaped by questions that have to do with racial belonging , it &apos;s also deformed by poverty .
we have a justice system in this country that &apos;s much better at treating them if they &apos;re rich and guilty than poor and innocent .
wealth , not debt , affects the outcome .
and yet , we seem to be quite pleased with it .
a politics of fear and anger has convinced us that these problems are not our problems .
we &apos;ve lost touch .
i think that &apos;s interesting .
there are some very interesting developments .
these are the kinds of thoughts that can get someone to start at 9 a.m. , drink gin . and i don &apos;t want that .
my home state of alabama is permanently pulling them out of the right to vote when they &apos;re sentencing .
here today in alabama , 34 percent of the male population has permanently lost their right to vote .
we &apos;re projecting that in 10 years , the rate of recognition of civil rights will be as high as before the legislation of the election act .
silence is earth-numbing .
i represent children .
many of my clients are very young .
the united states of america is the only country in the world that convicts three-tenths of children to death in prison .
in this country , there are lifelong sentences for children without a conditional punishment .
we already have a lot of procedures .
the only country in the world .
i &apos;d like to continue to do this work that i love .
i represent people in death cells .
the death penalty question is an interesting question .
we think because we &apos;ve been taught so that the real question is , has a human being deserved to die for a crime that he has ?
this is a very sensitive question .
but you can also think about it differently , depending on how we see our identity .
the other view is not : did anyone deserve death for a crime , but did we deserve to kill ?
i think that &apos;s fascinating .
the death penalty in america is defined by error .
on nine people we &apos;ve executed , one that we &apos;ve found innocent is unloaded and unleashed from the death cell .
an amazing error rate . one of nine of them innocent .
but what &apos;s interesting is the unique tone of the song , the rhythm of the dance in every culture .
now , of all the people i met , the sophii from the sierra nevada de santa marta in northern colombia were the most extraordinary .
so the question is , how ?
i think that &apos;s fascinating .
we would never let anyone fly with an airplane if for nine planes that pick up , one falls off .
but somehow we &apos;re able to get away from this problem .
it &apos;s not our problem .
it &apos;s not our burden .
it &apos;s not our fight .
i &apos;m talking a lot about these questions .
i &apos;m talking about race and the question of whether we &apos;re right to kill .
and it &apos;s exciting because i teach my students african-american history . i talk about slavery .
i &apos;m talking about terrorism , the time against the end of reconstruction , to the beginning of world war ii .
after some time of reflection , it seems to me that in order to continue writing , i have to design a kind of protective psychological construct .
we don &apos;t really know very much about it .
but for the african-american people in this country , it was a time of terror .
in many areas , people had to be afraid of lynchmobs .
or before bombs .
it was the fear of terror that shaped their lives .
these older people are now coming to me and saying , &quot; mr , stevenson , you &apos;re talking , you &apos;re giving talks . you &apos;re telling people to stop saying that for the first time in our nation &apos;s history of terrorism : after 9 / 11 . &quot;
they say , &quot; no , tell people that we grew up with it . &quot;
and of course , after terrorism , the racial race and decades of the racial understatement and apartheid came .
and yet , in our country , there is a dynamic -- we don &apos;t like to talk about our problems .
we don &apos;t like to talk about our story .
somehow , from now on , i have to figure out a way to maintain a safe distance between me and my very natural retailing about how the reaction will be to the written .
and so we don &apos;t really understand what our actions are in the historical context .
we &apos;re constantly bumping each other .
we always create new tensions and conflicts .
it &apos;s hard for us to talk about race , and i think that &apos;s because we &apos;re not willing to approach the process of truth and reconciliation .
in south africa , people have understood that the race race is not to overcome without the willingness to truth and reconciliation .
even after the rwandan genocide , there was this willingness , but not in this country .
i gave some talks in germany about the death penalty .
it was fascinating , because one of the scientists stood up after my talk and said , &quot; you know , it &apos;s deeply disturbing to hear you speak like this . &quot;
he said , &quot; in germany , there is no death penalty .
and of course , in germany , it can never be there . &quot;
in the past year , as i &apos;ve been looking for models for this to do this , i &apos;ve also been looking for the past , and i &apos;ve been trying to find other societies to see if they might have had better or more sensible ideas about how to help us deal with the emotional risks that are connected to creativity .
it became completely silent . then a woman said , &quot; with our history , it &apos;s impossible that we ever again propose to systematic killing of people .
it would be unconscious of us to make conscious and targeted people . &quot;
i thought about it .
how it would feel to live in a world where the german state made people do it , especially if there were a lot of jews under it .
it would be intolerable .
it would be unconscious .
and yet , here in this country , in the states of the ancient south , we put people -- here &apos;s the risk of being convicted of death , 11 times higher , if the victim is white , than if it &apos;s black . 22 times higher , if the charged black and the victim knows -- in the same states where the body is rowing yellow people .
and yet , there &apos;s this mental disconnect .
i think our identity is threatened .
if we don &apos;t deal with it , with these difficult topics , then the positive and wonderful things are affected as well .
this search led me to the ancient greece and the old rome .
we love innovation .
we love technology and creativity .
we love entertainment .
but in the end , these realities are overwhelmed by suffering , abuse , deployment , boundary .
i think it seems important to unite both .
because we ultimately talk about the fact that we need more hope , more engagement , more commitment , to be able to insist in a complex world .
for me , it &apos;s time for me to start thinking and talk about the poor , the disadvantaged , the ones that will never be at ted .
but think in a way that is integrated in our own lives .
we all need to believe , in the end , things that we can &apos;t see .
we do that . as rational as we are , we value intellect .
please follow me , because the circle will close again .
innovation , creativity , and development are not just coming out of our heads .
they come from ideas that are driven by persuasion in our hearts .
it &apos;s this head-to-heart connection that i think drives us to not only be open to all the bright and exciting things , but also to the dark and problematic things .
vaclav havel , the great czech politician , once said this .
&quot; when we fought in eastern europe against oppression , we wanted everything , but what we needed most was hope , a mental orientation , the willingness to be sometimes in hopeless places and witness . &quot;
this mental orientation is the core of what i believe is that the ted communities also have to engage in it .
there &apos;s no boundary for technology and design that allows us to be fully human , as long as we don &apos;t have eyes and ears for poverty , limitation and injustice .
i want to warn you . this kind of identity requires a lot more of us than if we didn &apos;t care about it .
it &apos;s going to touch it deeply .
as a young lawyer , i had the great privilege of meeting pink parks .
but in ancient greece and rome , people didn &apos;t believe that creativity comes from people , ok ?
ms. parks kept coming back to montgomery , where she had two of her oldest friends , these older women , johnnie carr , who had organized the montgomery bus boycott -- an incredible african-american -- and virginia durr , a white one whose husband , clifford durr , dr. king .
so these women met and they were just talking .
occasionally , ms. carr called me and said , &quot; bryan , ms. parks comes to the city . we want to talk .
do you want to come in and listen ? &quot;
and i said , &quot; yes , i love it . &quot;
she said , &quot; and what are you going to do if you &apos;re here ? &quot;
i said , &quot; i &apos;m going to listen . &quot;
and i went over and i just listened .
it was always so inspiring , so engaging .
one day i was sitting there listening to these women , and after a few hours , ms. parks turned to me and said , &quot; well , bryan , tell me what the initiative is for the same right . &quot;
they believed that creativity was a kind of divine divinity that comes to people for a distant , unknown source -- for unexplained , unknown reasons .
what are they trying to do ? &quot;
i started with my usual talk .
i said , &quot; we &apos;re trying to go against injustice .
wr wants to help people who were innocent .
we want to fight bias and discrimination in the criminal justice system .
we want to create lifelong prisoners without a conditional punishment for children .
we want to do something about the death penalty .
we want to reduce the number of prisoners .
we want to abolish mass incarceration . &quot;
i gave my usual talk , and then she looked at me and said , &quot; mhmm . mmm . mhmm . &quot;
the greeks called these divine divine minds of creativity demons .
she said , &quot; it &apos;s going to make you very , very tired . &quot;
then ms. carr leaned to me , put a finger on my face and said , &quot; and so you have to be very , very brave . &quot;
and so i think the ted community should be a braver .
we need to find ways to find these challenges : these problems , this suffering .
because ultimately , our humanity depends on all of our humanity .
in my work , i learned very simple things .
i learned a couple of very simple things .
that we &apos;re all more than the worst thing we &apos;ve ever done .
i think that &apos;s true for every human on the planet .
when someone lies , they &apos;re not just a liar .
from socrates , he &apos;s known that he believed that he had a demonstration that was telling him how to go from farther away .
if someone takes something that doesn &apos;t belong to them , they &apos;re not just a thief .
even if you kill someone , it &apos;s not just a murderer .
and because that is , there is a fundamental human dignity that has to respect the law .
i also believe that in many parts of this country , and certainly in many parts of the world , the opposite of poverty is not wealth .
i don &apos;t think so .
i believe that in many places , the opposite of poverty is justice .
and finally , i believe that even though it &apos;s so dramatic , so beautiful and inspiring , and so inspiring , we &apos;re not measured in our technology at the end , not in the things that we develop , not in our intellect and our minds .
finally , a society is not measured by how they treat their rich and powerful and privileged , but by how they deal with the poor , the convicted , the incarcerated .
because first of all , in this context , we &apos;re beginning to understand the truly amazing things that make us .
sometimes i lose the balance . a story at the end .
descendants of the ancient tyrannian civilization that populated the caribbean coastal plain of colombia , and as a result of conquest , this people returned to an isolated volcanic mass that goes up above the caribbean coastal plain .
the roman had the same idea , called this kind of bodily creative mind .
sometimes i push too much .
i get tired , like all of us .
sometimes these ideas will rush ahead of our thinking in a very important way .
i represent these kids who were convicted of very hard punishment .
i go to the research prison and i visit a client who may be 13 or 14 years old and is supposed to be in court as an adult .
then i ask myself , how could this happen ?
how can a judge turn someone into something they &apos;re not ?
the judge looks at him as an adult , but i see a child .
one night i stayed up for too long and thought , my goodness , if a judge can turn us into something else , then he must have magic forces .
right , bryan , the judge has magic forces .
this is great . the roman didn &apos;t really think that a genius was a particularly smart individual .
you should want some .
and because it was late , and i couldn &apos;t really think very well , i started working on a contract .
i had a 14-year-old , poor black boy as a client .
and i started with this contract , and the headline was , &quot; contract to treat my poor , 14-year-old black clients like a privileged , white , 75-year-old top manager . &quot;
in my contract , i explained that misconduct of the state sanctuary and the police and riding failures was to take into account .
there was a crazy line about the fact that there is nothing in this country that is in the right place , that there is only misconduct .
the next morning , i woke up and i didn &apos;t know if i had dreamed of this crazy contract or actually written it .
and to my dismay , i had not only written him , but sent him to the court .
a few months passed , and i had just forgotten everything .
but finally , i decided , my god , i have to speak to the court and this crazy case .
they believed that a genius was this kind of magical divine creature that was believed to live in the walls of an artist -- sort of like dobby , the house 11 -- that would come out and help the artist in the work , in a sense , make the result of the work .
i went to the car and was really overwhelmed -- overwhelmed .
so i went to the court .
and i thought , this is going to be so hard , so painful .
i finally got out of my car and went up the staircase to the court .
when i went up the staircase to the court , there was an elderly , black man , the janitor in the court .
when he saw me , he came over to me and said , &quot; who are you ? &quot;
i said , &quot; i &apos;m a lawyer . &quot; he said , &quot; you &apos;re a lawyer ? &quot; i said , &quot; yes . &quot;
he came to me and hugged me .
then he whispered me into the ear .
he said , &quot; i &apos;m so proud of you . &quot;
this is brilliant -- there it is , there &apos;s the distance that i was talking about -- the psychological construct that protects you from the consequences of your work .
and i have to say , it gave me power .
it touched something very deeply in me , identity , the ability of each individual to contribute to a community , to a perspective of hope .
well , i went to the courtroom .
as soon as the judge saw me .
he said , &quot; mr. stevenson , did you put this crazy contract ? &quot;
i said , &quot; yes . &quot; and then we started discussing .
more and more people came in , just because they were angry .
that i had written these crazy things .
police officers came in and they created proxy prosecutors and office staff .
the courthouse was full of people who were angry that we talked about skin color , we talked about poverty , we talked about inequality .
and everybody knew it worked like this , right ?
from my point of view , i saw the janitor go up and down .
he kept looking through the window , and he could hear the whole tohuwabohu .
he went up and down .
and finally , this older black man came to the courtroom with a very troubled face , and he sat right behind me , almost on the defense bank .
ten minutes later , the judge announced a break .
during the break , a police officer came in , who was disturbing that the janitor was in the courtroom .
this deputy ran over to the older black .
he said , &quot; jimmy , what do you do in the courtroom ? &quot;
the older black man stood up . he looked at the deputy , and he looked at me , and he said , &quot; i &apos;ve come here to tell this young man , don &apos;t lose the target from the eyes . don &apos;t give up . &quot;
i &apos;ve come to ted because i think many of you have understood that the moral pendulum of the universe is going to go far , but that it &apos;s going to increase justice .
the artist of aging was protected from certain things , like , too much narcissism , right ?
that we are not completely evolved as humans , as long as we don &apos;t care about human rights and basic values .
that our survival is linked to each and every one of us &apos;s survival .
that we need to connect our visions of technology and design , of entertainment and creativity with humanity , compassion and justice .
and most of all , i want you to say to those of you who see this , just to say , don &apos;t lose your goal out of your eyes . don &apos;t give up .
you &apos;ve seen a obvious wish in this audience , this community , and you &apos;ve heard about helping them and doing something .
what else can we do ?
bryan stevenson : well , there are possibilities everywhere .
if you live in california , there &apos;s a folk decision in this spring that &apos;s about actually doing an effort to implement some of the money that &apos;s going to go into the politics of punishment .
here , in california , for example , in the next five years , you &apos;re going to get a billion dollars for the death penalty . a billion dollars .
and yet , 46 percent of all the deadlines don &apos;t end with an arrest .
if your work was brilliant , you didn &apos;t get to look at it all for you , everybody knew that you had this unbodied genius that helped you .
56 percent of all rape cases don &apos;t come to court .
here &apos;s the opportunity to do something .
this reference will propose to invest the money in more security forces and security .
i think there are opportunities everywhere .
over the last three decades , the crime rate in america has declined immensely .
this fact is often put into a context with the increased incarceration numbers .
what would you say to someone who believes that ?
well , in fact , the number of violent crimes has not changed very much .
most of the mass incarceration in this country was not really in the class of violent crime .
it was the misguided cruise against drugs .
if your work flew -- not entirely your fault , right ?
so the dramatic high numbers come in the prison inmates .
we &apos;ve got to tear down from the rhetoric of punishment .
now we have &quot; three violations &quot; laws that bring people behind bars for all the time , for a bicycle theft , for the theft , for a little good , instead of forcing them to give back the things to the victims .
i think we need to do more to help people who have become victims of a sentence , not less .
and i think our current punishment philosophy doesn &apos;t help anybody .
i think that &apos;s what we need to change .
bryan , they really made a string vibrate here .
they are an inspiring personality .
thank you for being at ted . thank you very much .
bin laden &apos;s death is a risky risk of driving .
everybody knew your genius was a little laugh .
two : famine in somalia . speaker 3 : o.c. spray of the police .
four : malignant cartels . speakers 5 : dangerous cruise ships .
six : social decline . speaker 7 : 65 deaths .
tsunamic warning . speaker 9 : cyber-attacks
different speakers : drug war . weapons of mass destruction . tornado .
recession . gridlock . doomsday . egypt . syria .
crisis . death . disaster .
oh my god .
so these are just a few of the clips that i &apos;ve collected over the last six months -- but could have been the last six days , or the last six years .
the fact is that the media preferences to show us negative issues , because our minds are paying attention to these particular topics .
so people in the west have thought about creativity for a really long time .
and there &apos;s also a very good reason for that .
every second of every day , our senses are catching much more information than our brain can ever process .
and because we &apos;re more important than our survival , the first stop for all the information is part of our temporal lobe , the amygdala .
so the amygdala is our early warning system , our risk detector .
it &apos;s sorting and searching through all the information in the search for any evidence of danger in our environment .
so when we see the news , we prefer to look for negative news .
and the old saying , &quot; when it bleeds , the demand &quot; is very true .
now , with all our digital devices , which seven days a week , to put all this negative news , it &apos;s not a miracle that we &apos;re pessimistic .
it &apos;s not a miracle that everybody thinks that the world is getting worse and worse .
but maybe that &apos;s not the case .
in a bloodshed continent , these people were the only people who were never conquered by the spaniards .
and then the renaissance came along , and everything changed . we had this big idea . and this big idea was , let &apos;s put the human individual at the center of the universe -- all the gods and mysteries . and there &apos;s no room for mystical creatures to take commands from the divine .
maybe that &apos;s the reality .
maybe the tremendous progress that we &apos;ve made in the last century is accelerating through a series of forces , so strong that in the next three decades , it will allow us to create a world of abundance .
now , i &apos;m not saying that we don &apos;t have big problems -- climate crisis , biodiversity loss , water and energy problems -- we already have .
and as humans , we &apos;re much better at looking at problems in the very long term , but ultimately overcoming them .
let &apos;s see what we &apos;ve achieved in the last century , so we can anticipate the development .
in the last 100 years , the average life expectancy has more than doubled , which has adapted to inflation on average income in the world &apos;s population has tripled .
child mortality has declined by a tenth .
and the food , electricity , transportation and communication costs have reduced by a multiplicity cost .
steve pinker showed us that we are now living in a very peaceful time of human history .
and according to charles kenny , the literacy rate has gone from 25 percent to 80 percent in the last 130 years .
it &apos;s the beginning of rational humanism , and people started to believe that creativity came from their own individual .
we live in a really extraordinary time .
and a lot of people forget this .
and we &apos;re increasing our expectations all the time .
in fact , we redefined poverty .
remember that a lot of americans who live under the poverty line have access to electricity , water , toilets , refrigerators , tvs , mobile phones , air conditioners and cars .
the richest capitalists in the last century , the imperators of the earth , could never have dreamed of such luxury goods .
the basis of a lot of these is technologies , and they grow expotentially .
my good friend ray kurzweil showed us that every tool that &apos;s going to be a big leap on the curve of moore &apos;s law , and the price performance quotient doubles every 12 to 24 months .
so the mobile phone in your pocket costs about a million times less and is thousands of times faster than a supercomputer from the &apos; 70s .
now look at this curve .
for the first time in history , you hear people call a genius or this artist -- instead of having a genius .
this is moore &apos;s law over the last hundred years .
notice two things about this curve .
first , how smooth it goes -- in good times , war or peace , recession , depression and high conjuncture .
this is the result of faster computers building faster computers .
it &apos;s slowing down for none of our big problems .
moreover , despite its logarithmic trajectory on the left , it goes upward .
so growth itself is accelerating .
and on this curve , on the back of moore &apos;s law , we find a series of extraordinary technologies that are available to everybody .
&quot; cloud-computing , &quot; something my friends at autodesk call &quot; infinite-computing , &quot; sensors and networks , robots , 3d printers that allow personal production on our planet to democratize , synthetic biology , fuels , vaccines and food , digital medicine , nano-materials and artificial intelligence .
how many of you have seen the victory of ibm &apos;s supercomputer watson at risk ?
i have to tell you , i think that was a big mistake .
this was grandios .
i once went through the newspapers and looked for the best headlines that i could find .
i love this one : &quot; watson defeats human adversaries . &quot;
&quot; risk &quot; is not a simple game .
it &apos;s about understanding the nuances of language .
imagine that this artificial intelligence is available to every owner of a mobile phone .
four years ago , ray kurzweil and i started a new university here at ted called singularity university .
we teach our students all these technologies , with special focus on how they can be used to solve the great challenges of humanity .
and every year , we ask the students to create companies , to create products and services that can positively live the lives of billions of people in a decade .
think about the fact that a group of students today can influence the lives of billions of people .
you know ? i think allowing a mere person to think he or she &apos;s like the vessel , like the basin and the essence and the source of all the divine , creative , unknown , infinite mysteries is a little too much responsibility to stop them from being fragile , human psyche .
30 years ago , this would have been ridiculous .
today , we can point to dozens of companies that have done this .
when i think about creating abundance , i don &apos;t mean a life of luxury for everyone on the planet ; it &apos;s about creating a life of possibilities .
it &apos;s about creating goods out of scarce .
scarcity is contextual , and technology is a resource liberating .
here &apos;s an example .
this is the story of napoleon ii. in the middle of the 18th century .
he &apos;s the guy on the left .
he invited the king of siam to dinner .
napoleon &apos;s soldiers got silver stamp , napoleon himself got gold bust .
it &apos;s like asking someone to swallow the sun .
but the king of siam got aluminum brick .
aluminum was the most valuable metal on the planet at that time , more valuable than gold and plain .
this is why the dome of the michael monument was made out of aluminum .
although aluminum takes 8.3 percent of the earth &apos;s mass , it doesn &apos;t seem like pure metal .
it &apos;s connected by oxygen and silicon .
but then the technology of electrolysis was developed and made aluminum manufacturing so cheap that we use it with our throwaway mentality .
then let &apos;s project this analogy into the future .
we &apos;re thinking about energy shortage today .
ladies and gentlemen , we live on a planet filled with 5,000-times more energy than we use every year .
16 terawatts of energy , every 88 minutes , smash on the surface of the earth .
this is depicting and distorting whole egos , and it creates all these unreachable expectations of success .
it &apos;s not scarcity , the problem is accessibility .
and there &apos;s good news .
this year , for the first time , they were able to reduce the cost of solar power in india to 50 percent of the same electricity -- 8.8 rupees compared to 17 rupees .
the cost of solar energy dropped by 50 percent last year .
last month , this has published with a study that shows that by the end of this decade in the sunny areas of the united states , solar energy will cost six cents a kwh , compared to 15 cents a national average .
and if we have an energy overload , we will also have water in the abundance .
let &apos;s talk about water wars .
do you remember when carl sagan turned the voyager spacecraft back to earth in 1990 ?
he took a famous photograph . what was it ?
&quot; a pale blue dot . &quot;
i think this success pressure has devastated our artists for the last 500 years .
because we live on a water planet .
we live on a planet that &apos;s covered 70 percent with water .
yes , it &apos;s 97.5 percent salt water , two percent are frozen , and we &apos;re fighting at 0.5 percent of the water on the planet , but there &apos;s also hope .
and there are new technologies , not in 10 or 20 years , but now .
it &apos;s new nanotechnology along the way , nano-materials .
and from a conversation this morning with dean kaman , one of the innovators of the do it yourself , i want to share with you -- he gave me permission -- his technique , which is called &quot; slingshot , &quot; which many of you may have heard of . it &apos;s the size of a refrigerator at the student home .
it can produce a thousand liters of clean drinking water from different sources a day -- whether saltwater , polluted water , latrine -- and all of that for less than two cents a gallon .
the head of coca-cola has just agreed to start a big test project with a hundred units in the developing world .
and if everything goes well , and i &apos;m very confident , coca-cola will apply this technology globally in 206 countries around the planet .
this is technology innovation that &apos;s supported today .
and , if that &apos;s true -- and i think it &apos;s true -- the question is .
and we &apos;ve also seen this in mobile phones .
oh my goodness , we &apos;re going to reach the 70 percent reduction rate of mobile phones in developing countries by the end of 2013 .
just remember that a massai warrior with a cell phone in the middle of kenya has a better mobile communication than president reagan 25 years ago .
and if you look at your smartphone on google , you have more access to knowledge and information than president clinton 15 years ago .
they live in a world that has information and communications in abundance , as nobody could have predicted .
and it &apos;s even better , the things that you and i have spent several thousand dollars on -- gps , hd video and photo , libraries of books and music , medical diagnostics technology -- are now literally being dematerialized and cheaper in your cell phone .
and the best part is probably what &apos;s expected us in health .
last month , i had the pleasure of announcing with the qualcommand foundation what &apos;s called &quot; $ 10 million qualcomm tricorder x prize . &quot;
we &apos;re asking teams around the world to connect all these technologies to each other in a mobile phone so that you can talk to the device , because it &apos;s equipped with ai , you can coughing or testing your blood values .
and in order to win , the device has to diagnose a better diagnosis than a team of highly qualified doctors .
can we change it ?
imagine this device . in the middle of a developing country where there are no doctors , but 25 percent of the disease burden and 1.3 percent of the health care workers .
if this device sequences a rna- or dna virus that &apos;s not known , it calls the ministry of health and prevents a pandemic from their outbreak .
but now the largest force that will lead us to a world of abundance .
i call it &quot; the coming billion . &quot;
the white lines are for population .
we just crossed the seven-billion-dollar brand .
and by the way , the biggest insurance against a population explosion is a better education and nutrition around the world .
in 2010 , we had just connected under two billion people online .
by 2020 , we &apos;re going to go from two billion to five billion internet users .
three billion new minds that we &apos;ve never heard of before will connect to global communication .
to this day , they &apos;re governed by a ritual priesthood , but the training to priesthood is very extraordinary .
maybe to an ancient understanding of the relationship between people and the mystery of the creative .
what do these people need ?
what are they going to consume ? what are they going to want ?
and instead of economic standstill , i see one of the largest economic markers in history .
these people represent several trillion dollars that will flow into the global economy .
and they will be healthier by using the tricoder , and they will be better trained by the khan academy , and by having the opportunity to use 3d printers and infinite computing , and to be so much more productive than ever before .
so what can three billion growing , healthy , educated , productive members of the human community bring us ?
how about a set of new , unheard voices before .
what about the oppressed , wherever you are , giving a voice to pay attention and to create change for the very first time ?
what are these three billion people going to bring with us ?
how about contributions that we can &apos;t even predict ?
maybe not .
one of the things that i learned through the x prize is that small teams that are motivated by passion and focus can create extraordinary things , things that big companies and governments could only create in the past .
i want to conclude with a story that really got me excited .
there &apos;s a program that some of you may know .
it &apos;s a game called foldit .
it was developed at the university of washington in seattle .
and it &apos;s a game where people can take a sequence of amino acids to study how the protein will evolve .
according to its behavior , we can predict the structure and function .
and this is very important in medical research .
so far , this was a problem for supercomputers .
and this game was played by university professors and so on .
maybe we can &apos;t just eradicate the thought of 500 years of rational humanism in an 18-minute talk .
and it &apos;s now hundreds of thousands of people who have played the game online .
and it showed that these days , the human pattern recognition is better than the best supercomputers .
and when these people came and looked at who is the best protein folder in the world , this was not a mit professor , it wasn &apos;t a caltech student , it was somebody from england , manchester , a woman who was a assistant to the business guidance in a rehab clinic , and at night was the best protein orchestra in the world .
ladies and gentlemen , what gives me enormous faith in our future , is the fact that we have more power today than individuals to face the great challenges of our planet .
we have access to tools with exponential technology .
we have the passion of a diy innovator .
we have the capital of techno-philanthropes .
and we have three billion new heads that we can work with online to master the new challenges , and to do what &apos;s necessary .
we expect a few extraordinary decades .
thank you .
and there are certainly people in this audience who would register really righteous scientific doubt about the idea of -- basically -- fees that people will follow and apply feathers to their projects and so on .
i think we need to do something about a changing piece of medical culture .
and i think it starts with a medical doctor , and i am .
and maybe i &apos;ve been in business for a long time , so i can allow myself to give up a piece of my own false prestige to do that .
but before i get to the actual issue of my talk , let &apos;s start with a little baseball .
hey , why not ?
we &apos;re close to the season , and we &apos;re moving towards the world cup .
we all love baseball , right ?
baseball is full of great statistics .
and there are hundreds of them .
&quot; moneyball &quot; appears soon , and it turns around statistics , and to use it as a great baseball team .
i &apos;m probably not going to be able to take all of you on this journey .
i &apos;m going to relate to a statistic that i hope most of you have heard of .
it &apos;s the average performance of the bat .
we &apos;re talking about a 300 when a bat hits 300 .
that means that the player is going to beat three out of 10 beats .
that means beat the ball in the field , it comes up , it &apos;s not caught , and who tried to throw the ball to the first base in time didn &apos;t make it in time , and the runner was safe .
three out of 10 .
do you know what you call a 3,000 in major league baseball ?
well , really good , maybe an all-star .
do you know what you call a 400ter ?
this is somebody who , by the way , meets four out of 10 .
but the question i want to throw up is : why not ?
legendary -- as ted williams legendary -- the last major league baseball player who met over 400 times during a regular season .
let &apos;s transfer back to my medical world , where i feel a lot more comfortable , or maybe a little less comfortable , that i talked to you about .
suppose you have a blindness infection , and you &apos;re transferred to an operator whose average performance is 400 in terms of blindness .
somehow it doesn &apos;t work , right ?
suppose you live in a certain remote area , and you have a beloved person with clogged heart disease , and your home doctor passes it to a cardiologist whose average performance is about 200 .
but , you know what ?
it &apos;s much better this year . it &apos;s on the rising branch .
and she &apos;s beating a 257 .
somehow it doesn &apos;t work .
but i &apos;m going to ask you a question .
why not think about it that way ?
what do you think of as the average performance of a cardiologist or a nurse or an orthopedic , a birthday worker , should be a rescue assistant ?
1,000 , very good .
the truth is that no one in all medicine knows what a good surgeon or a doctor or a rescue assistant should be .
but what we &apos;re doing is we &apos;re going to send all of you , including me , to the world with the claim to be perfect .
never make a mistake , but nobody is concerned about the details of how to do it .
and that &apos;s the message i took in medical school .
i was a compulsive student .
in high school , a fellow student once said that brian goldman would learn for a blood test .
and so it was .
and i learned in my little dairy in the nurse &apos;s residence at the toronto general hospital , not far from here .
because it makes as much sense as anything else i &apos;ve heard about when it comes to explaining the absolutely insane skill of the creative process .
i memorized everything .
in my anatomic lecture , i learned the origins and executives of every muscle , every branch of any artery that takes away from the aorta , obscure and ordinary differential diagnosis .
i even knew the difference diagnosis to classify renal tubugelre azidose .
and all the time i collected more and more knowledge .
and i was good , i graduated with cum laude .
and i left the medical school with the impression that if i knew everything and knew everything , or at least as much as possible , i was as close to complete as possible , that i was immune to making mistakes .
and it worked for a while , until i met ms. printer .
i resisted at a teaching hospital here in toronto , as a woman , printer was brought to me in the emergency department of the hospital .
at that point , i was proven to be the cardiological layer in the cardiological service .
and it was my assignment when the emergency staff was looking for cardiological advice to study the emergency patient .
a process that , as anyone who has ever tried to do something -- so in other words , actually , everybody here -- doesn &apos;t always behave reasonably .
and giving feedback to my top doctor .
i studied ms. drucker , and she was in breathing .
and when i listened to her , she made noisy sounds .
and when i heard her chest with the stethoscope , i could hear a crushing sound on both sides , which told me that she suffered from congestive heart failure .
this is a state where the heart fails , instead of pumping all the blood on , a part of the blood is stuck in the lung , and filling this gradually , so the shorthand came .
and that was not a hard diagnosis to do .
i put them on , and i went to the treatment .
i gave her aspirin . i gave her medicine to take the pressure of the heart .
i gave her medicine that we call diuretics , water pills , so that she would say the fluid .
and over a period of one and a half to two hours , she started to feel better .
in fact , he can sometimes feel very paranormal .
i felt really good .
and i made my first mistake ; i sent them home .
in fact , i made two mistakes .
i sent them home without talking to my top doctor .
i didn &apos;t take the audience up and do what i should have , what would have been a call to my top doctor to tell him that he had a chance to make his own image .
and he knew her , he would have been able to contribute additional information to her .
maybe i did it with good reason .
maybe i didn &apos;t want to be the aid doctor .
maybe i wanted to be so successful and so able to take responsibility that i was acting like this , and so i would be able to care for my patients without having to contact him .
my second mistake was worse .
the young acolyths are separated at the age of three and four by their families , and in a shadow world of the finstar , in stone huts , at the end of the glacier for 18 years , intentionally chosen to mimic the nine months of pregnancy that they spent in the lap of their quiet mother , they now spend metamorphorphorically in the lap of the great mother .
i had such an encounter recently when i met the extraordinary american poet ruth stone , who is now over 90 , but who was a poet in her entire life , and she told me that when she was growing up in the villages of virginia , she grew up out in the fields , and she said she could feel and hear how a poem came to her .
by doing that , i sent them home , i missed a quiet voice in me trying to tell me , &quot; goldman , not a good idea . don &apos;t do that . &quot;
in fact , i was so lacked by self-security that i asked the nurse who cared about ms. drucker , &quot; do you think it &apos;s okay when she goes home ? &quot;
and the nurse thought about it and said , in fact , &quot; yeah , i think she &apos;s going to be okay . &quot;
i remember it as if it was yesterday .
so i signed the discharge papers and an ambulance and rescue assistants came home and brought them home .
and i went back to work .
the rest of the day , the night i had this nagging feeling in my stomach .
but i continued to work .
and at the end of the day , i grabbed my stuff , i left the hospital , and i went to the parking lot to go home with the car , when i did something i didn &apos;t do otherwise .
i went through the emergency department on my way home .
she said it would be like a thundering train of air .
and there , another nurse said , not the sister who had seen printer after woman , but another three words to me , and those three words fear the most emergency doctors i know .
other medical professionals are also afraid of this , but emergency medicine is particularly special , because we only see the patients so volatile .
the three words were , remember ?
&quot; do you remember the patient you sent home ? &quot;
and the nurse asked the question .
&quot; so she &apos;s back , &quot; she said in this particular pitch .
so she was back .
she was back and dying .
about an hour after she arrived at home , after i sent her home , she collapsed , and the family called 911 , and the rescue assistants brought her back to the emergency room with a blood pressure of 50 , which is a dangerous shock state .
she barely breathed , and she walked blue .
it would roll over the country on them .
the emergency staff pulled all the strands .
they gave her blood pressure .
they attached them to the ventilation machine .
i was shocked and broken into the inner .
and i lived through this rollercoaster because she came to the intensive care , and i hoped that she would recover .
and after two , three days , it became clear that it would never wake up again .
she had suffered a non-treatable brain damage .
her family gathered together .
and over the course of the next eight or nine days , they gave up to the story .
the latest day , they made them go -- woman printer , woman , mother and grandmother .
she felt when it came , because it would get the earth under her feet to inherit .
it &apos;s said that you never forget the names of those who die .
and that was the first time i learned this myself .
the next couple of weeks , i was making a suggestion , and i learned for the first time the unhealthy shame that exists in our medical culture -- i felt alone , isolated , not the kind of healthy shame that you feel , because you can &apos;t talk to the colleagues about it .
you all know the healthy shame , if you give you a secret to the best friend &apos;s prize , even though that one was swinging at conspiracy , and then you get caught , and the best friend is confronted with it , and my terrible discussion is when you end up with the bad conscience , and you swear that you never make a mistake like that again .
if you do revival and never make the mistake again .
this is the kind of educational shame .
the unhealthy way i &apos;m talking about it is the one that makes you sick inside .
it &apos;s the one who tells you that it &apos;s not what you &apos;ve done that &apos;s bad , but that you &apos;re bad yourself .
and that &apos;s what i felt .
and it wasn &apos;t because of my top doctor , he was very dear .
she knew that in such a moment she could only do one , and that was , in her words , running like the devil .
he talked to the family , and i &apos;m sure he saved the woods and made sure that i was not sued .
but i continued to ask myself these questions .
why didn &apos;t i ask the top doctor ? why did i send her home ?
and then in my worst moments , how could i make such a stupid mistake ?
why did i go to medicine ?
slowly , it was safe .
i started to feel better .
and then on a wounded day , there was a hole in the clouds , and the sun broke out , and i said , maybe i can feel better again .
and i was acting with myself that if i doubled my efforts to perfect and never made a mistake again , that the voice could be stumbling .
and she did .
she ran like the devil to the house while she was pursued by this poem , and it was only that she had to quickly get to a sheet of paper and a pen , so that when she could go through it , she could catch it and hold it on the sheet .
and i kept working .
and then it happened again .
two years later , i had service in the emergency room in a community hospital north of toronto , and i was looking at a 25-year-old man with full rage .
it was a lot off , and i was in a hurry .
he always showed up here .
i looked in the revenge , and it was a little bit of pink .
and i gave him a prescription for penicillin and sent him away .
and even when he went out the door , he pointed at his rage .
two days later , i came to my next emergency service , and my chief asked me to talk to her office .
and she said the three words : do you remember ?
in other paintings , she wasn &apos;t fast enough . she ran and ran and ran , but she didn &apos;t reach the house , and the poem was rolling through her , and she missed it , and she said it was going to move across the country , and , as she said , she was looking for another poet .
&quot; do you remember the patient with the full rage ? &quot;
it turned out that he had a streptococus infection .
he had a potentially life-dangerous disease called epiglottitis .
you can google it , but it &apos;s not an infection of the raw , but the upper breath , and it &apos;s causing the capability of the breath .
and fortunately , he didn &apos;t die .
he got intractable antibotica , and he recovered a few days later .
and i went back through the same torture of shame and self-doubt , felt free and went to work until it happened again and again and again .
in an emergency class , i &apos;ve seen twice a blind darkness .
there &apos;s a lot of this , especially if you think that you &apos;re working in a hospital that only had 14 patients per night at that time .
in both cases , i didn &apos;t send them home , and there was probably no shortage in their treatment .
and then there were these moments -- i &apos;ll never forget the part -- she said that there were moments when she almost missed it .
one of the things i thought he had was kidney stones .
i ordered the x-ray of the kidneys , and when that was not found , my colleague , in the revision of the patient , put a hardening in the lower right sector , and called the operators .
the other one had strong diarrhea .
i ordered fluids to rehydrate it , and i also asked my colleagues to review it .
and he did , and when he set a hardening in the lower right sector , he called the operators .
in both cases , surgery became , and they were fine .
both of these cases nailed me , and they asked me .
and i would be happy to tell you that my worst mistakes happened only in the first five years , which many of my colleagues say , but is total nonsense .
some of my blocks happened in the last five years .
alone , embarrassed and no support .
so , she runs to the house , and she looks for the paper , and the poem goes through her , and she grabs a pen just as it goes through her , and then -- she said -- it was like taking your other hand and grabbing it .
here &apos;s the problem : if i can &apos;t close with my mistakes and talk about them , if i have the quiet voice that tells me what really can &apos;t be done , then how can i share it with my colleagues ?
how can i teach you my mistakes so that they don &apos;t do the same thing ?
if i went to a room -- like right now , i have no idea what you &apos;re thinking about me .
when was the last time you heard of someone who was talking about failure about failure ?
oh yeah , you go to a cocktail party , and you might hear about some other doctor , but you won &apos;t hear somebody talk about your own mistakes .
if i went to a room full of colleagues and asked for their immediate support , and i started telling them what i just told you , i would probably not get to the end of the second story , before it really became unpleasant , anyone would integrate a joke , they would change the topic and forget the rest .
and in fact , if i knew , or my colleagues , that an orthopedic in my hospital had taken off the wrong leg , believe me , i had trouble looking at him in the eyes .
this is the system that we live in .
it &apos;s a completely denial of errors .
it &apos;s a system where there are two basic positions -- the ones that make errors and the ones that don &apos;t make any mistakes -- the ones that constrain sleeping deprivation , the ones that have no constraints , the results and the results that are good .
she got the poem on his tail , and she pulled it back into her body , and she took it over to the sheet of paper .
it &apos;s almost an ideological reaction like antibodies attacking a human being .
and there &apos;s the idea that if we combine those who make mistakes out of medicine , that we have a safe system .
but there are two problems with this .
in my 20-some years of the medical sensation and journalism , i &apos;ve done a personal medical study of medical errors and false treatments to make all possible for one of my first papers that i wrote for the toronto star to my show , &quot; white coat , black art . &quot;
and what i learned is that mistakes are absolutely incomprehensible .
we work in a system where every day errors happen , where one in 10 medications is either a false or wrong , where hospital infections are becoming more and more and more numerous and causing devastation or dead .
in this state , about 24,000 canadians die of the deadly errors .
in the united states , the institute of medicine is the number of 100,000 .
both are strong understatements , because we don &apos;t look at the problem as much as we should .
and it &apos;s the crux .
and all this time , they are culturally introduced into the values of their society , values that sustain the claim that their prayers and only their prayers , the cosmic -- or we could say the ecological -- sustain balance .
in these opportunities , the poem came in and intact on paper -- but backwards -- from the last word to the first .
in a hospital system where the medical knowledge doubles every two to three years , we can &apos;t keep up .
sleep deprivation is ubiquitous .
we can &apos;t get rid of it .
we have a cognitive error so that we can take a perfect pathway for a patient with breast pain .
then i take the same patient with a chest pain , i make him sweat , and i give him a little bit of alcoholized breath , and all of a sudden the story is permeated with contempt .
i don &apos;t take the same process .
i &apos;m not a robot ; i &apos;m not always doing things the same way .
and my patients are not cars ; they &apos;re not telling me their symptoms in the same way all the time .
all of these things are inevitable .
so if you take the system as i was taught , and you put out all the errors of health expertise , no one is left .
when i heard that , i thought that was uncanny -- that &apos;s exactly how my creative process is going on .
and you know the people who don &apos;t want to talk about their worst cases ?
in my show , &quot; white coat , black art , &quot; i have the habit of saying , &quot; this is my worst mistake , &quot; i would say to anyone from the rescue assistant to the cardiologist &apos;s chief , &quot; this is my worst mistake , &quot; blah , blah , blah , blah , blah , &quot; what about yours ? &quot; and then i show the microphone to him .
and then your pupils are expanding , and they &apos;ve been bumping in front of their head , and then they look down and they &apos;re swallowing , and they start telling their stories .
they want to tell their stories . they want to share their stories .
they want to be able to say , &quot; look , don &apos;t make the same mistakes that i made . &quot;
what they need is an environment that they can make .
what you need is a new medical culture .
and it starts with a doctor .
the newly defined doctor is a human , white , accepted to his humanity , is not proud to make mistakes , but it &apos;s all about learning from them so that it can be passed on .
she shares her experience with others .
it &apos;s not like my creative process at all -- i &apos;m not the channel !
it supports others talking about their mistakes .
and it shows other people their mistakes , not to mess , but in a loving , supportive way so that they all benefit .
and she works in a medical culture that recognizes that people fill the system with life , and if that is , then people make mistakes from time to time .
so that the system is evolving to create backups that make it easier to find mistakes that make people inevitable , and also allow them to create loving , supportive spaces where anyone who &apos;s watching the health care system can actually address things that are the potential mistakes and even rewarded for them , and that &apos;s specifically for people like me who should make mistakes and be rewarded for the gratification of that .
my name is brian goldman .
i &apos;m the newly defined doctor .
i &apos;m a human . i make mistakes .
i regret , but i &apos;m trying to learn best from it to pass it on .
i don &apos;t know what you think of me , but i can live with that .
let me close with three of my own words : i remember .
i &apos;m a mouth . in order to work , i have to get up and sweat at at the same time every day , struggle and really unpleasant go through .
i &apos;m going to talk about a tiny , small idea .
it &apos;s about changing standards .
and because you can explain this idea in a minute , i &apos;m going to tell you three stories earlier to use time .
the first story is about charles darwin , one of my heroes .
you know , he was here in 1835 .
you may think he was chasing fincakes , but that &apos;s not true .
he actually collected fish .
he described one of them as very common .
it was a grouper .
until the &apos; 80s , it was fished in a big way .
but even i &apos;ve been in my masonry , sometimes this thing &apos;s mapped .
now he &apos;s on the red list of endangered species .
we &apos;ve heard this story many times from the galapagos islands , or other places , it &apos;s not very special .
yet , we &apos;re still coming to the galapagos .
we still think they &apos;re primal .
the brochures still describe them as untouched .
what happened here ?
the second story is to illustrate a different concept , a different tacular range , a different concept .
because i experienced it when i was studying a lagoon in west africa in 1971 .
i went there because i grew up in europe , and i wanted to work in africa later .
i thought i could integrate .
and i guess many of you have done that too .
and i got a bad sunburn , and i was convinced that i really didn &apos;t come from there .
it was my first sunburn .
as you can see , the lagoon of palms was surrounded by some mangroves .
there were buntbarks of about 20 inches , black jaws , a subset of the buntbaria .
the fisheries of these buntbarks were very productive , and the fishermen lived well on it , and they earned on average in ghana .
when i returned 27 years later , the fish had shrunk to half its size .
they grew up five inches .
they had been genetically expressed .
they were still fish .
people were still happy .
even i had work or ideas that came from a source through me that i really can &apos;t identify .
and the fish was also fortunate to be there .
so it hasn &apos;t changed , and yet everything has changed .
my third little story is about my participation in the introduction of the trawling net fisheries in southeast asia .
in the &apos; 70s -- rather in the early &apos; 60s -- europe has funded a lot of development projects .
fish promotion meant countries that started 100,000 fish , the industrial fishing of this pretty ugly ship called mutiara 4 .
i went to this , and we made recovery throughout the southern southern sea , and especially in the javasee .
we didn &apos;t have words for what we started there .
i know now that it was the bottom of the sea .
90 percent of our beginning were sponges , other animals that are connected to the reason .
most of the fish , the little dots there on the rubber pile , the trushy pile , were coral reefs .
what is this thing ?
basically , the bottom of the ocean came up on deck , and then it was thrown back .
these images are extraordinary , because the transition goes very fast .
within a year , you do a survey , and then you start with the commercial fishing .
the reason is changed . for -- in this case -- a hard reason or soft coral becomes a matchy crap .
this is a dead turtle .
they were not eaten , they were thrown away because they were dead .
once we started a vibrant .
she wasn &apos;t drowned yet .
then they wanted to kill them , because you could eat them well .
in fact , this mountain of debris is accumulated by fishermen every time they drive into areas that have never been fished .
and how do we relate to it without losing our minds , but even keeping us in spiritual health ?
it &apos;s not documented .
we change the world , but we don &apos;t remember it .
we adapt our normal values to the new level , and we don &apos;t remind ourselves of what was there .
if you generalize it , this is what happens .
on the y-axis are some good things : biodiversity , number of orca , the green of your country , the water supply .
over time , it changes . it changes , because for people , their actions are very natural .
every generation looks at the images that you take in the beginning of your conscious life , as a standard , and will derive everything from it .
the difference is then perceived as a loss .
but they don &apos;t notice the previous losses .
there can be a series of changes .
for me , the best living example of how to do this is the musician tom waits , and i was allowed to interview him for a magazine a few years ago .
and in the end , they just want to get the inheritable remains .
that &apos;s what we &apos;re going to do most of the time .
we want to get things that have disappeared or things that are no longer as they were .
now you might think that the problem is that people who were certainly living in predatory societies were killing animals and becoming aware of what they had done after a few generations .
because obviously , an animal that was very common becomes rare before it dies .
so you don &apos;t lose very often occurring animals .
you &apos;re always losing rare animals .
and that &apos;s why it &apos;s not perceived as a big loss .
over time , we &apos;re focused on the big animals , and in the sea , these are the big fish .
they get less rare because we catch them .
at the end of this amazing initiation , you &apos;re suddenly taken out one day , and for the first time in your life , at the age of 18 , you see a sunrise . and in this crystal moment of consciousness of the first light , when the sun starts to radiate on the hands of the astonishing landscape , all of a sudden everything that you &apos;ve learned in the abstract is going to be in amazing glory . and the priest comes back and says , &quot; you see ? it &apos;s really how i told you .
we were talking about this topic . and you know what ? most of his life , tom was the embodiment of the pure modern artist who was trying to dominate this uncontrollable creative impulse that lived in him , and to deal with them .
over time , there &apos;s a little fish left , and we think that &apos;s the normal value .
the question is , why do people accept this ?
well , because you don &apos;t know it was different .
of course , many people , scientists , will confirm that it was really different .
they &apos;re going to confirm it , because the evidence that they were presenting in an earlier form is not the way they would like the evidence .
for example , there &apos;s the anecdote that the report of a captain soundso , who was watching big fish occupations in this area , can &apos;t be used , or fishermen can &apos;t normally be valued , because it &apos;s not &quot; scientific . &quot;
so we have the situation that people don &apos;t know the past , even though we live in educated societies , because they don &apos;t trust the sources of the past .
this shows the enormously big role that a marine protected area can play .
because through marine protected areas , we &apos;re basically restoring the past .
we &apos;re remaking the past that people can &apos;t understand , because the standard values have changed and are very low .
but then he got older and quieter , and he told me that one day he was driving on a rapid road in los angeles , and it all changed for him .
so the people who see a marine protected area and can benefit from the insight that allows them to restore their normal values .
what about the people who don &apos;t do that because they don &apos;t have access -- for example , the people in the midwest ?
here , i think , the art and the film can perhaps fill the gap , and simulations .
this is the simulation of the chesapeake bay .
a long time ago , there were gray whales -- 500 years ago .
and the color notes and the shakes may remind you of &quot; avatar . &quot;
if you think about &quot; avatar , &quot; if you think about why people were so touched by it -- except for the pocahoney story , why were they so touched by the image world ?
because it &apos;s a wax call that &apos;s been lost in a certain way .
so my recommendation , the only thing i &apos;m going to give , is to get cameron to turn &quot; avatar ii &quot; underwater .
thank you .
he was driving at high speed when he suddenly hears a little fragment of a melody , which , as in inspiration , is often very difficult for him to be agonized , and he wants to have it . she &apos;s gorgeous . he leans afterwards , but he can &apos;t touch it .
in the &apos; 80s , in the communist east germany , if you had a typewriter , you had to register it in the government .
they also had to register a leaf with example text from this typewriter .
the reason for this : the government could track back where a text came from .
they found an article with false thought , and they could find the creator of that thought .
and we couldn &apos;t understand how much anyone could do that , and how much that would constrain freedom of speech .
in our own countries , we would never do that .
but today , in 2011 , if you buy a new color laser printer from the leading laser printing maker and print a page , this page has printed bright yellow spots on each side , in a pattern that clearly reviews the page to you and your printer .
this is what happens to us today .
and nobody seems to be upset about that .
and this was an example of how our own governments use the technology against us , the citizens .
he doesn &apos;t have a piece of paper , he doesn &apos;t have a pen , he doesn &apos;t have a tape recorder .
and this is one of the three main sources of the existing online problems today .
let &apos;s look at what &apos;s really happening in the world : we can split the attacks into categories .
we have three main groups .
there are online criminals .
for example , here , this is mr. dimitry golubow from kiew in ukraine .
and the motives of online criminals are very easy to understand .
these people make money .
they use online attacks to make a lot of money , a huge amount of money .
there are several known cases of online millionaire , multimillionaire , who made their money through attacks .
this is wladimir tsastsin from tartu in estonia .
so he starts to climb this old tape in him , like i &apos;m going to lose this thing , and he &apos;s going to be tracked from this song to eternal .
this is alfred gonzalez .
stephen watts .
björn sundin .
these are matthew anderson , tariq al-daour and so on and so forth .
these people have come to wealth online , but they &apos;ve done it illegal by , for example , using trojan to steal money from our bank accounts while we &apos;re doing our online banking , or keyloggers , who have collected our credit card information on the keyboard while we &apos;re buying an infected computer online .
the u.s. intelligence agency fror , two months ago , the swiss account of mr. sam jain here , and in this account , 14.9 million dollars when it was frozen .
mr. jain himself is on the open foot , the location is unknown .
and i would argue that it &apos;s more likely today that we will become victims of an online crime than a crime in the real world .
and it &apos;s very obvious that this is just going to get worse .
in the future , most crimes will play online .
i &apos;m not good enough , i &apos;m not able to do it .
the second largest attacker group we can see today is not motivated by money .
they &apos;re motivated by something else -- protests , like , an opinion , or by your audience .
groups like anonymous have gone up over the last 12 months and become one of the main players in the field of online attacks .
so these are the three main groups of attacks : criminals who do it for the money , hackactivists like anonymous , who are resistant to this , but the last group is nations , governments , who are running the attacks .
there are cases where we are , like the diginotar .
it shows the explicit of what happens when governments attack their own citizens .
diginotar is a complete mainframe certificate from the netherlands -- or was that .
last fall , it had to register insolvence , because diginotar had been hacked .
somebody had broken in and had hacked the system thoroughly .
and last week in a meeting with dutch government officials , i asked one of the leaders of this group to ask , did he make it possible that people had died because of the diginotar hack ?
but instead of panicking , he just stopped .
and his answer was &quot; yes . &quot;
now , how do people die in the wake of such a hack ?
diginotar is a certification site .
they sell certificates .
what do you do with certificates ?
now , a certificate requires if you have a website with https , with ssl encrypted services , for example , gmail .
now we all use , or many of us , gmail or one of our competitors , but these services are particularly common in totalitarian states like iran , where dissidents use foreign providers like gmail , because they know that they can trust them more than local providers and that they &apos;re encrypted by ssl connections , so that the local government can &apos;t sniff around in their conversations .
but can you , if you go to a foreign ?
certification agencies hack and make fake certificates .
and that &apos;s what happened in the case of diginotar .
he finished the whole thought and did something completely new .
how about the arab spring and the things that happened in egypt , for example ?
now , in egypt , the insurgency in april 2011 was the headquarters of egyptian intelligence police , and they found a lot of records .
in these records , there was a folder called finfisher .
and in this folder , the notes of a local company in germany that had sold a few programs to the egyptian government that they could -- in a very large scale -- capture any communication of egyptian citizens .
they had sold this program for 280,000 euros to the egyptian government .
the headquarters are right here .
so western governments provide totalitarian governments with tools so that they can go against their own citizens .
but western governments also help themselves .
for example , in germany , just a few weeks ago , the so-called state strajans , and this was a trojan who was used by german government officials to cover their own citizens .
if you &apos;re suspected in a criminal case , it &apos;s pretty much safe to tap into your phone .
he just looked in the sky and said , &quot; sorry , can &apos;t you see that i &apos;m driving ? &quot;
but today we are far beyond that .
they tap into their internet connection .
they use tools like the state officer to play their computer with a trojan who allows them to monitor their entire communication , to stop their online discussions , to collect their passwords .
so if we keep thinking about things like this , the obvious answer to people would be , &quot; ok , that sounds bad , but it doesn &apos;t matter to me , because i &apos;m a good citizen .
i don &apos;t have to worry .
i have nothing to hide . &quot;
and this argument doesn &apos;t make any sense .
privacy must be given .
privacy is not the debate .
it &apos;s not a decision between privacy and security .
i look like i could just write up a song ?
it &apos;s a choice between freedom and control .
and while today , in 2011 , we may trust our governments , every right that we give up is forever abandoned .
and do we trust , blind to any future government , a government that we might have in 50 years ?
these are the questions that we have to deal with for the next 50 years .
it may seem strange to you , but i &apos;m a big fan of concrete blocks .
the first concrete blocks were made in 1868 , and they came up with a simple idea : module of cement with a set of measurements that fit together .
concrete building blocks became very quickly the most used building unit in the world .
they put us in a position to build things bigger than us , buildings , bridges , one stone at a time .
basically , the concrete building block had become the building block of our time .
almost a hundred years later , in 1947 , lego came out with this .
it &apos;s so wonderful . you have to protect it . &quot;
if you really want to exist , come back to a cheaper moment , if i can take care of you .
it was called the &quot; automatically committing stone . &quot;
and within a few years , lego moved into every household .
it &apos;s estimated that over 400 billion stones have been produced -- or 75 stones for every person on the planet .
they don &apos;t have to be an engineer to create beautiful houses , beautiful bridges or beautiful buildings .
lego made it possible for everyone .
lego basically took the concrete building block , the building block of the world , and made it a building block for our imagination .
in the meantime , in the same year at bell labs , the next revolution was announced , the next building block .
the transistor was a small plastic unit that would take us from a world of static , stacked building blocks to a world where everything was interactive .
like the concrete block , the transistor allows us to build much larger , more complex cycles , one stone at a time .
but there &apos;s a major difference : the transistor was just for experts .
if not , somebody else is squawking today .
i personally don &apos;t accept that the building block of our time is reserved for experts , and so i decided to change that .
eight years ago , i was at the media lab , and i started to explore this idea of how to put the power of engineers in the hands of artists and designers .
a few years ago , i started to develop littlebits .
let me show you how they work .
littlebits are electronic modules that have a specific function .
they &apos;re designed to be light , sound , engine and sensor .
and the best part is that they connect with magnets .
so you can &apos;t put them together wrong .
the stones are color-coded .
green is copy , blue is electricity , pink is input , and orange is cables .
go and squawk leonard cohen .
so all you have to do is connect a blue one and a green one , and you can build very quickly larger circles .
they put a blue one on a green one , and they can make light .
they can put a switch in between , and so they made a little dimmer .
take the switch out to put in a pulsmodule , which is here , and they made a little blinker .
add this buzzer to an additional effect , and they made a noise machine .
i &apos;m going to stop that .
beyond the simple game , littlebits is actually quite powerful .
instead of having to program , wire or solve , littlebits allows them to program with simple , intuitive gestures .
so to accelerate or slow the blind , just turn on this button , and it makes the impulse faster or slower .
the idea behind littlebits is that it &apos;s a growing library .
his whole process of work has changed afterwards .
we want to put every single interaction in the world into a useful rock .
lights , sounds , solar elements , motors -- everything should be available .
we &apos;ve spread littlebits to children , and we see them play with it .
and it was an incredible experience .
the most beautiful thing is how they start to understand the electronics that they surround in their everyday lives and they don &apos;t learn in school .
for example , how a night light works , or why the doors of the elevator remain open , or how an ipod responds to touch .
we also brought littlebits to design schools .
so we had , for example , designers with no experience in electronic things that started playing with littlebits as a material .
here we see , with filce , paper and water bottles , like geordie ...
a few weeks ago , we brought littlebits to risd , and we gave them some designers who had no technical experience -- just cardboard , wood and paper -- and we told them , &quot; do what . &quot;
not the work itself . it was often as dark as ever .
here &apos;s an example of a project that they did , a motion-controlled confect cannon .
but wait , this is really my favorite project .
it &apos;s a bumblebee of play-doh that has fear in the dark .
for these non-engineers , littlebits became another material , electronics just became another material .
and we want to make this material available for everyone .
so littlebits is open source .
you can go to the website , download all the design equipment and make it yourself .
we want to encourage the world of the creators , the inventors , the contributors , because this world that we live in , this interactive world , is ours .
so , go ahead and start inventing it .
thank you .
but the process and the hard climbing that surrounds him was lifted up when he took the genius out of him , where he did nothing but anger and left him back to where he came from , in a way , and he realized that it didn &apos;t have to be an internal , agonizing thing .
there could be a strange , miraculous , bizarre collaboration , a kind of conversation between tom and the strange , external thing that wasn &apos;t quite tom .
when i heard this story , it changed the way i worked , and it saved me a little bit .
this idea saved me when i was in the middle of the writing process of pray , love , and i fell into one of these grubs of the doubt that we all fall into when we work on something and it doesn &apos;t work . you start to think that it &apos;s a disaster . that &apos;s the worst book ever written .
not just bad , but the worst of all time .
they call themselves the older brothers and say that we are the younger brothers in charge of the destruction of the world .
i started to think i should just steal the project .
but then i remembered tom speaking in the open sky , and i tried .
so i took my look at the manuscript , and i spoke my commentary towards an empty corner of space .
i spoke loudly : listen , you &apos;re doing things , you and i both know , if this book is not brilliant , it &apos;s not completely my fault , right ?
because you can see that i &apos;m investing everything i have . i don &apos;t have any more than that .
so if you want to have it better , you have to check up here and hold your percentage of the deal .
okay . but if you don &apos;t do that , you know what the hell is .
i &apos;m going to keep writing , because that &apos;s my job .
and i want to leave you with protocol that i was here today for my part of the job .
because ... in the end , it &apos;s like this . centuries ago , in the deserts of north africa , people have gathered into moons with sacred dances and music that have been held for hours , until dawn .
now this level of intuition becomes very important .
these solids were always great , because the dancers were professional , and they were fantastic .
but over and over again , very rarely , something special happened , and one of the performers actually became transcendent .
and i know you know what i mean , because i know you &apos;ve all seen a performance like this in your life .
it was as if time was standing still and the dancer was coming through a kind of pforte , and he did nothing but he had ever done before -- 1,000 nights before , but it all filled together .
and all of a sudden , he no longer appeared to be fully human .
it was illuminated by the inside , and it was illuminated from the bottom , and everything was illuminating through a divine fire .
when this happened , people knew what this was . they called it in his name .
they put their hands together , and they started singing , like , allah , allah , allah , god , god , god .
that &apos;s god , you know ?
interesting historical footnote : when the mosques were conquering south spain , they brought in this practice , and the language changed over the centuries of the allah , allah , allah to the olé , olé , olé , that you still hear in the fight and flameno dances .
whenever we think about indigenous and landscape , we either conjure rousseau and the old framework of the noble wild , which is a racial thought in its simplification , or on the other hand , thoreau and say , these people are more connected to nature than we are .
if a performer in spain has done something impossible , something magical , something like this , allah , olé , olé , olé , allah , great , bravo , there &apos;s it : a volatile look at god .
and that &apos;s great , because we need that .
but , the tricky part follows the next morning when the dancer himself wakes up and realizes that it &apos;s 11 o &apos;clock on a tuesday -- and he &apos;s no longer carrying a fifth of god .
it &apos;s just an aging mortal with painful knees , and maybe it will never go back to those altitudes .
and maybe no one will ever call god &apos;s name when he rotates , but what is he going to do with the rest of his life ?
that &apos;s hard .
this is one of the most painful corrections of a creative life .
but maybe it doesn &apos;t have to be that full of pure , if you didn &apos;t believe in the beginning , that the most extraordinary aspects of your existence would come from you .
if you just believe that you &apos;re a loan -- of an unthinkable source of your life , which is passed on to someone else when you &apos;re done with it .
when we start thinking about it that way , it changes everything .
so , indigenous people are not sentimental , nor are they chosen by the nostalgia .
so i started thinking , and so i certainly think in the last few months , while i was working on the book that &apos;s going to appear soon -- as the dangerous , frightening , strongly anticipated successor of my descendants .
what i have to tell myself all the time when i get crazy about this is , don &apos;t be afraid .
don &apos;t be discouraged .
just do your job .
continue to be there for your contribution , whatever he wants to be .
if your job is to dance , dance .
if the dumb divine genius , which is set aside , for a moment , decides to show a smoke of wonder through your effort , then olé !
and if not , dance your dance .
and michael olé ! for you , despite all of that .
i believe that , and i feel that we should teach that .
there &apos;s not a lot of room for this in the malaria seats of asmat or the cold winds of tibet , but they still , through time and ritual , created a mysterious nimbus of the earth , which is not based on the idea of being aware of it , but on a far more subtle intuition , the idea that the earth can exist only because it &apos;s inhaled into human consciousness .
michael olé ! for you , despite all this , just for having the mere human love and the sense of being there .
thank you .
thank you .
olé !
last year , i showed these two slides to illustrate that the arctic ice caps , which for nearly three million years , had shrunk the size of the lower 48 states by 40 percent .
but that doesn &apos;t express the seriousness of this particular problem , because it doesn &apos;t show the thickness of the ice .
in a sense , the arctic ice caps is the beating heart of our global climate system .
it grows in the winter and shrinks in the summer .
the next slide i &apos;m going to show you is a time-lapse shot of what &apos;s happened in the last 25 years .
the permanent ice is marked with red .
now , what does that mean ?
as you can see , it grows on the dark blue . this is the annual ice in the winter , and it shrinks in the summer .
the so-called permanent ice , five years old or older , is almost like blood flowing out of the body here .
in 25 years , it will be gone from here to here .
this is a problem , because global warming is looking at the frozen reason for the arctic ocean , where there are huge amounts of frozen carbon , which , when it &apos;s looking up , is transformed from microbes to methane .
compared to the entire amount of climate-changing materials in the atmosphere , that amount could double if we cross that critical point .
already today , in some flat lakes in alaska , methane is claiming itself from the water .
professor katey walter at university in alaska has traveled to another flat sea last winter .
wow !
you can do it well . the question is , how will we do it ?
and one reason is , this enormous heat rush warms up greenland from the north .
it means that a small child from the andes that grow up in the belief that the mountain is an apu-mind , that will be his or her destiny , will be a completely different person , and will have a different relationship with this resource or this place , as a little child from montana , that grows up in the belief that a mountain is a pile of stones that can be rejected .
this is an annual dive river .
but the volume is much bigger than ever before .
this is the canger lussuaq river in southwest greenland .
if you want to know how the sea level goes through land ice sheets , it goes into the sea .
these rivers are rapidly gaining .
on the other end of the planet , antarctica , the largest ice mass on the planet .
last month , researchers reported that the entire continent now has a negative ice footprint .
and the west antarctica , which has popped up over a few underwater islands , is particularly strong in melting .
this corresponds to 20 feet of sea level , like greenland .
in the himalayas , the third largest ice mass , you see new lakes that were glaciers a few years ago .
whether it &apos;s a locality of a mind or a bunch of inheritance is irrelevant .
40 percent of all the people in the world get half of their drinking water from this melting water .
in the andes , this glacier is the drinking water source for this city .
the amount of water has expanded .
but if you seal , most of the drinking water will fall away .
in california , a 40 percent reduction in the snow ceiling of the sierra .
this is the memory ponds .
and the predictions of how you read them are serious .
this austrosity around the world leads to a dramatic increase in fires .
and the catastrophes around the world have been in a really extraordinary and unprecedented extent .
four times as many in the last 30 years as in the previous 75 years .
the interesting thing is the metaphor that defines the relationship between the individual and the nature .
this is a completely unsustainable pattern of development .
if you look at this in the historical context , you can see what it does .
in the last five years , we &apos;ve produced 70 million tons of co2 every 24 hours -- 25 million tons per day into the oceans .
look at the area of the eastern pacific , the american continent west and both beyond the indian subcontinent , where there is a dramatic decline in oxygen in the ocean .
the biggest single factor for global warming , besides deforestation , which is 20 percent , is burning fossil fuels .
oil is a problem , and coal is the most equal problem .
the united states is one of the two largest pollutants , along with china .
and the proposal was to build many more coal factories .
but we &apos;re starting to see a change .
here are the ones that have been denied in the last few years , with some green alternatives that have been proposed .
i grew up in the forests of british colombia , and i believed that these forests were there to be rounded .
meanwhile , there is a political argument in our country .
and the coal-fired and estrogen have spent a quarter of a billion dollars last calendars to promote clean coal , which is a contradiction in itself .
this picture reminded me of something .
i was walking around christmas , at home in tennessee , a billion tons of coal lamb .
you &apos;ve seen it in the news , apparently .
this is the second largest waste flow in america in our entire country .
this is what happened at christmas .
one of the commercials of the coal industry for christmas was this .
frosty the carbon man is a happy , happy guy .
it &apos;s in skin and abundance in america , and it helps our economy grow .
this made me a different person than my friends under the kwakiutl , who believe that these forests are the location of hukuk and the curved celestial beak and the cannibalic spirits that live on the north of the world , spirits that they would participate in their hamatsa initiation .
frosty , the carbon man gets clean every day .
it &apos;s affordable and loving , and workers are staying in wages and bread .
this is the source of most coal in west virginia .
the most powerful miner is the head of massey coal .
let me say one very clearly . al gore , nancy pelosi , harry reid , you don &apos;t know what you &apos;re talking about .
so the alliance for climate protection has created two campaigns .
this is one , a part of her .
at coalergy , we see climate change as a serious threat to our business .
so we set it up to the top line , to spend a significant amount of money to get a commercial action to get the truth of coal .
in fact , coal is not dirty .
now , if you start to look at the idea that these cultures can create different realities , you can understand some of their extraordinary discoveries , like this plant here .
we think it &apos;s clean -- and it &apos;s still smelling good .
so , don &apos;t worry about climate change .
let &apos;s leave that quiet .
clean coal , you &apos;ve heard a lot about it .
so let &apos;s take a tour of this modern , clean coal factory .
fantastic ! this machine is pretty noisy .
but it &apos;s the sound of the clean coal technology .
and yet , burning coal is one of the main reasons for global warming , the remarkable clean coal technology you see here , changes everything .
look at it very closely , this is today &apos;s clean , clean coal technology .
finally , the positive alternative is mixing with our economic challenge and our challenge of national security .
all of these people teach us that there are other possibilities of existence , other ways of thinking , other ways of guiding the earth .
it &apos;s a photograph i took just last april in the northwest of the amazon .
america is in a crisis , the economy , national security , the climate crisis .
the red thread that connects all of these is our dependence on carbon based fuels like dirty coal and foreign oil .
but now there &apos;s a bold new solution to unleash us from this miserable situation .
take a hundred percent clean electricity in america over the next 10 years .
a plan to bring america back to work , to make us safer and to help stop global warming .
finally , a solution that is big enough to solve our problems .
take care of america . find out more .
this is the last one .
it &apos;s about a new supply of america .
one of the fastest ways of reducing our dependence on old , dirty fuels that are sticking our world .
this is ayahuasca , who many of you have heard about , the strongest psychoactive preparate from the repertoire of the shaman .
the future is here . wind , sun and a new energy system .
new investments to create well-paid jobs .
support new america . it &apos;s time to accept reality .
there &apos;s an old african saying , &quot; if you want to be fast , go alone .
if you want to get far , go together . &quot;
we need to get a long way , and very quickly .
thank you .
i want to start by asking you to think back to the time you were a kid , when you were playing with building blocks .
as they realized how to reach out and access the hands , take the blades and move , they actually learned how to think and solve problems through understanding and changing spatial coherence .
the spatial thinking is tightly connected to how we understand a lot of our environment .
as a computer scientist -- inspired by the kind of interactions that we have with real objects -- with my expert , patti and my colleague , jeevan kalanithi , i started to wonder : what if we used computers that , instead of a mouse cursor , that moves like a digital fingertip on a flat surface of work -- what if we could intervene with both hands and take data physically and put it in the way we want it ?
this question was so profound that we decided to explore the answer , and we developed siftables .
in short , a siftable is an interactive computer the size of a cookie .
you can be moved with your hand , you can perceive each other , you can detect your movements , and you have a screen and a radio receiver .
more importantly , are physically why you can move them like building blocks just by extending your hands and access .
and the siftables are an example of a new generation of tools to manipulate digital data .
and if these tools become more physically physical and develop a conscious mind for their movements , recognize each other , and perceive the enemies of our relationship with them , then we can start to explore new and entertaining interactions .
i &apos;m going to start with some simple examples .
this siftable is configuring for the video replication , and if i tip it in one direction , the video is played forward ; if i tip it in the other direction , it &apos;s going backwards .
and these interactive portraits are perceiving each other .
this plant contains some very strong tryptamins that are very similar to the serotonin , dimethyltryptamin 5 and methoxydimethyltryptamin .
so if i put them side by side , that &apos;s what they &apos;re interested in .
if you &apos;re surrounded by the indians , you &apos;ll notice that , and you can get a little nervous .
and they also feel their movements and their tendency .
and an interesting consequence of the interactions that we started to recognize was that we could apply everyday gestures to data , like shooting colors in the way that you do with fluids .
in this case , we &apos;ve designed three siftables as a color pot , and i can use them to pour paint in the middle , where they &apos;re mixed .
if we exaggerate it , we can shoot back a little bit .
there are also some nice opportunities in education like languages , math or logic games , where we give people the possibility of rapid error and we want to see the results immediately .
here i am -- this is a fibonacci series that i &apos;m making with a simple equation program .
this is a game with words , which is a kind of mixture of scrabble and boggle .
basically , you get every round on every siftable letter that happens to be dedicated , and as you try to form words , they &apos;re checked over a dictionary .
if you &apos;ve seen the yanomai already , how they sniff this stuff , this substance that they make from different species also contains methoxydimethane tryptamin .
then , after about 30 seconds , you get remixed and you have a new letter combination and you try out new possibilities .
thank you .
these are some kids who came to the media lab on a trip , and i was able to get them to try it out and take a video of it .
they really loved it .
one interesting thing about these kinds of applications is that you don &apos;t have to give people a lot of instructions .
all you have to say is &quot; educate words , &quot; and you know exactly what to do .
here are a few more people who test it .
this is our youngest beta-tester down there on the lower right .
it turns out that he just wanted to stack the siftables .
so for him , they were just building blocks .
sniffing this powder is kind of like being shot out of a rifle , saturated by baroque paintings and landing on a sea of electricity .
this is an interactive trickshot .
we wanted to develop a tool for language learners .
this is felix .
he can bring new characters into the scene by lifting the siftable from the table that shows this character .
here he is leaving the sun .
the sun rises .
now he &apos;s bringing a tractor into the scene .
the orange tractor .
good work ! yes !
by shaking the siftables and putting them side by side , he can make the characters interact ...
it &apos;s not a distortion of reality , but the resolution of reality .
... invent his own story .
hello !
it &apos;s a story with an open end , and it can decide how it evolves .
flying cat .
the last example that i have time for today to show is a music sequencer for live performances that we &apos;ve recently developed , and in the silicon as sound , like leadership , bass and drums .
each has four different variations ; you can choose which one you want to use .
and you can put these notes in the sequence that you can put in any pattern .
and you eat them by just holding a clay siftable to a sequencing siftable .
there are effects that you can change live , like hall and filter .
you put it together with a particular tone , and then you tend to hire it .
i even discussed this with my professor , richard evan shultes , the man who introduced the psychedelic ethirea with the discovery of the magic mushrooms in mexico in the 30s , and i claimed that you couldn &apos;t classify these tryptamins as a hallucinogen , because the moment you feel the impact , you &apos;re not there anymore to experience a hallucination .
and then there are superior effects like speed and volume that you apply to the whole sequence .
so let &apos;s see .
we start where we put the leadership voice in two sequencing siftable and put it in a row , expand it and add a little bit more of the voice .
now i &apos;m adding a bass .
now i &apos;m going to do a little bit more of that .
and now i connect the filter to the drums so that i can control the effect live .
i can accelerate the whole sequence by tipping the pace in one direction or another .
and now i &apos;m connecting the filter with the bass , for a little more expression .
i can reorder the sequence while they &apos;re running .
so i don &apos;t have to plan them in the field , but i can improvise them ; they expand or shorten during the course of that .
but the thing about tryptamins is that they can &apos;t be picked up , because they &apos;re denatured by a human intestine enzyme , of course , by the name of monoamin oxidase .
and finally , i can eliminate the whole sequence by leveraging the volume siftable to the left .
thank you .
so as you can see , my excitement is to develop new human computer interfaces that fit better with how our brains and bodies work .
and today i had time to show you part of this new design world and some of the ways that we &apos;re working on in our lab .
the idea that i want to leave you with is that we are at the verge of this new generation of tools to interact with digital media , bringing information into our world that corresponds to our demands .
thank you .
i &apos;m looking forward to the conversation with all of you .
yeah , good day .
i &apos;m happy i &apos;m there .
yeah , so what should be biohacking ?
they can only be associated with some other chemicals , ordered , which are denaturizing the mao .
i &apos;ve got to get a little bit out of it , and that &apos;s biohacking doing modern molecular biology .
i &apos;ve been studying molecular biology , and i &apos;ve been looking at biohacking for a few years now , and i started this because i just wanted to know more about it , and i really wanted to do it myself , which i &apos;ve learned theoretically in studying .
so , that was my primary motivation .
so it was a curiosity , and i wanted to sort of get closer to the matter , like that .
i think molecular biology in general is now , in general , speaking , biotechnology , everything you count on it , synthetic biology and so on .
it &apos;s extremely important , now it &apos;s extremely important , and it &apos;s going to be much , much more important , in the future .
there are as controversial things as these whole genetically engineered plants on the corners .
there &apos;s now craig venter in the united states , trying to make biofuel , which is algae gasoline .
among then there are things that are totally in the everyday world , which most people are not aware of , for example , of wash enzymes that allow us to wash at 40 degrees of laundry are also genetically optimized enzymes .
and you can continue the list endlessly .
and this is an idea that , if you think about it , can only fulfill you with hope .
now the fascinating thing is that the betakarboline contained in the liane are mao-inhibitors of exactly the way that you need to power the tryptamins . so ask yourself .
and so , from the interest of this , this technology , i just kept going in there .
now why hack ?
most people know this from the software sector .
computers hack , and then it &apos;s always going to be in the media , yes , the hackers break in somewhere and claw data and so on .
now this is kind of very sad for the hacking scene , because that &apos;s not what it really started to do , and what &apos;s really behind it .
and that is , the software hackers , in the &apos; 70s , started with computer tinkering years , and it &apos;s also created the internet .
and it &apos;s about solving a problem in a playful , creative , original way .
and the problem is that it &apos;s not just a technical problem , it can also be a social problem , it can also be a access problem , which is how things simplify , so any problem , and how can you do it differently , or how can you do it better .
and it &apos;s just been raised with software , but there &apos;s also an electronics , there &apos;s a whole tinkering scene that &apos;s been done with electronics circuits to do all sorts of things .
and right now , in the direction of biology , and i want to take this metaphor that comes from synthetic biology , that biology is actually an information science , because , the d.n.a code is an abstract code , which is yes , it &apos;s not quite the same as computers , because it &apos;s more dynamic , because it &apos;s matter , so real matter , and not just cyber .
how can these people from a flora of 80,000 species of adstrinting plants find these two morphologically unrelated plants that , when combined in that way , create a kind of biochemical version , so that the whole thing is bigger than the sum of its parts ?
but it &apos;s also a code , and you can program it , and you can also hack it , like that , and that &apos;s what i found incredibly fascinating , and that &apos;s where i just wanted to go much deeper .
this actually only took two thousand eight really forms , these networks .
there &apos;s hackteria dot org , which is originally from switzerland , which is with europe and with a cooperation based in india , but now has members or active people around the world .
this has a more artistic alignment , so there &apos;s a lot of artists and philosophers and working with scientists to deal with these technologies and to ask questions and to process that creatively , there &apos;s museum exhibitions and yes , all kinds of things .
but it &apos;s really all about finding such a locker access , having such a playful approach with it .
and then there &apos;s do-it-yourself bio dot org , d.i.y.bio .
this is a network from the u.s.a , which is actually more like a forum where you &apos;re going to meet and discuss online .
they &apos;re a little bit more technical , and they &apos;re also going to a little bit more businessly , and they &apos;re going to ask , yes , applied questions .
and based on these networks that have made the whole popular , it has evolved a scene like this that i want to briefly portray .
in the upper left here , you see biocurious , which is a hackerspace , so basically a kind of school , a private school , a nonprofit unification where everyone can come from .
we use this great euphemism , trial and error , which turns out to be meaningless .
children , old , all sorts of people go there to just deal with it , they set up a lab , and they look at what can you do when these lab protocols look at .
down here on the lower left is a group in indonesia , house-of-natural fiber , which is called , but it &apos;s been around for quite a long time .
for longer than these other two networks .
they &apos;re also in such an artistic aspect of biological materials , and , yes , electronics , and they &apos;re combining it in a very delicate way .
a group from ankara that i met a while ago , which is a group of students who wanted to give more convey to the public what they learned in college , and they &apos;ve done so on street fests , and they &apos;ve tried to explain to people what &apos;s d.n.a .
and i have a lecture up in the other picture in copenhagen at the medical museum in combination with an exhibition on the subject .
and this is , yes , these are mostly pretty young people , but the only thing that actually is united , is this fascination of technology .
and what you can do with it , and also , really targeted to society to go and ask , you know , okay , what do you know , what do you want to do , do you have any interest in bringing you into that ?
so , ok , to hack biology now , you need some material .
you need biological materials , of course , and you also need tools , and that &apos;s a lab .
but if you ask the indians , they say , &quot; the plant speaks to us . &quot;
or , usually , what you understand under a lab is , you know , these are sort of degraded machines , extremely expensive , extremely distanced , just for professionals , trained academics with ph.d. and so on .
and our approach was just to say , ok , you don &apos;t actually have to do that .
that &apos;s actually not necessary , because every coffee machine has actually got more sophisticated technology than most laboratories , that &apos;s really the way it is .
and s o with this premise with this premise then , for example , brian degger in england tried to put together a minimum abor , then took a steam pressure cow , a heat plate , and , yes , that soup brothers , and then grew bacteria , worked .
so anyone who has been messing up a soup that they &apos;ve been leaving for too long .
i then tried this in my lab at home to expand a little bit , and then i bought the second-hand equipment on ebay , and i did some d.n.a analysis , tried to do a father &apos;s test , so that / d.n.a fingerprinting , to do it again at home .
this is not supposed to be a joke at all , but .
down here in the picture , you see the lab , in the field of leadership , so there &apos;s such a garage that has been done with all sorts of lab scaffolds that the university has done , a group in paris that has done something , and it &apos;s pretty successful with it , and also does quite interesting things , and i want to do a project for a second .
and this is biocurious , who just mentioned hackerspace , this kind of folk school , basically for molecular biology .
and yeah , so , you see , it &apos;s relatively heterogeneous , so there &apos;s a stop of people doing it alone , up to large , larger organizations doing it more formal in institutionalized form .
so , what does that mean ?
but always the idea that it should be simple and accessible .
the first project that we &apos;ve done as an international group , when we &apos;ve kind of become aware of ourselves , ok , we &apos;re here as a real scene , and we &apos;re online , and we know the people who are always chatting and so on .
and then , from the do-it-yourself bio website , the founder &apos;s website , and he said , &quot; okay , we &apos;ve got to actually meet , we &apos;ve got to meet real meetings , and then organized two sessions , one in london , two thousand 10 , and just after that in the united states , in san francisco . &quot;
and , you know , it was also about , yes , who are we , what do we want , what do we want to share ?
and what are our values and what are our goals , our foundation ?
and then we worked out a code-of-conduct .
that was quite intuitive , so everybody just expressed their wishes , their and what &apos;s going on , then .
there was a very good code , in my opinion .
and that &apos;s not what we &apos;ve done , but that &apos;s what it is , i think , has done pretty well , people are quite convinced of that .
and we even then tried to bring that back to the academic world , but it &apos;s kind of not there .
this tribe , the cofan , has 17 variants on ayahuasca , that you all recognize at a distance in the forest that appear to be a species for our eyes .
so i think we &apos;re from the biohacker scene , in fact , a step further than the academic world .
yeah , what kind of projects do we actually do ?
one project that i did with the hackteria network in switzerland itself was that we wanted to build something called an optical trap or optical pink .
this is , if you focus a laser beam on you in the room , then you can catch little particles in the air or in the liquid , and then move in that focus , so that &apos;s tractor , so that &apos;s basically like a tractor beam .
this really works , this is done in academic setting , and then we thought , okay , we might get this , then we took a webcam , which is screwed up , turned off the lens , and then you have a microscope that &apos;s going to scale up about four hundred times .
you can see that down there .
and then we took a d.v.d brenner apart , and we took the burning out the laser , and then tried to focus on this camera there .
and unfortunately , it didn &apos;t work , but we &apos;ve learned a lot .
this is another project that came out of the french group in paris , which worked out , which is pretty cool .
and that &apos;s what he has , you know , a brain wave measurement device , like e.e.g , or something like that , so he &apos;s been looking at neurobiology , his nickname is sam neurohack .
and then you ask them how they start their taxonomy , and they say , &quot; i thought you understand something about plants .
he then built this helmet there , and in the cooperation with the museum , this is what happened .
and then the visitors could go in the room , sit on this chair , sit down on this helmet .
then their brainwaves were measured , and depending on what they thought , or how they thought , they went to different lights in the room .
it was a pretty fake project .
another thing from the united states , which has to do with this father &apos;s history , is the p.c.r , which is polymerase-chain response , complicated word .
so it &apos;s about copying genes , replicating them , replicating , d.n.a , replicating fragments so that you can make them visible .
so now , if i do this , the profilers at the scene of the crime , they go and collect some hair samples , and then they do this , and then they can say , okay , this hair belongs to this person , like this .
and the machines that are doing this are pretty expensive to buy commercially , that are the cheapest ones to go off at four thousand euros .
and that &apos;s not in the hobbyside area , but it &apos;s a really cool technology that can also do a lot .
so this is just one application of many that you can do with it .
i mean , you know nothing at all ? &quot; and i said , &quot; no . &quot;
and they &apos;ve set up two builders , and they &apos;ve said , okay , we &apos;re going to make this easier and cheaper , and then they &apos;ve got out of open source , which is available hardware , electronics , assembled this device , and they &apos;re now the ones that actually brought it to the market , and they &apos;re now the cheapest vendors of these devices in the world .
i think that kind of sighted dollars or something like that .
but anyway , it &apos;s still not cheap now , but it &apos;s certainly in a frame where it becomes more available .
so it &apos;s a very boring hack , i think .
one project that i started recently was to build a gene gun .
gene-gun is , yes , like a kind of air pressure gun that shoots about this far , two inches or so .
you load d.n.a on gold particles , and then you put the gold particles in this air pressure gun , and then i shooted them on onions , and then i brought them to the light .
so the device that you see there didn &apos;t work .
but this is my prototype , but it was pretty much like this , on such a branch , the thing on it , it was attached to electronics , and it was pressure , but it was too high , the thing was broken .
and then i took a juvenile commute and i plucked it in .
so it turns out that you take each of the 17 variants at the full moon , and you sing to one in a different clay .
a juice powder , if you make the full of water , has enough pressure , so i think , 40 to six hundred bar on it .
and then you can accelerate the particles very much enough , and then they go into the onion .
and the commercial device costs about five thousand euros up , or something like that , recurrent pads by 50 .
so it doesn &apos;t have the same efficiency , but it &apos;s basically doable .
so , this is also , at the moment , the core cause of the scene is to increase this availability of technology and also increase the information and the understanding that more people can engage in it .
because , as i said at the beginning , it &apos;s an extremely important technology , and most people have relatively little idea of it , and also no chance of getting really good at it .
because if you just read about it , from secondary literature , that &apos;s not the same as if you &apos;ve done it yourself or seen it .
and i think technology is becoming more and more important in our modern societies .
and if , as an informed citizen , you want to be able to make meaningful decisions in society , and you want to be able to communicate , you need access to knowledge and to technology .
and you also have to do it and understand it in order to do it and understand it .
now , this doesn &apos;t give you a ph.d. at harvard , but it &apos;s much more interesting than counting tribal .
and that then fires under the headwords of open knowledge and citizen science .
so that , as a citizen , you &apos;re going to be able to deal with these scientific technologies .
and this is the core cause of the biohackers .
these are the people who have contributed at least officially on the website , d.i.y.bio-dot-org website .
this is a relatively remarkable number of people around the world .
and what &apos;s interesting is that they &apos;re also represented in southeast asia .
that &apos;s what i think they &apos;re in , you know , there are fewer people in there than actually existing .
so i know from some who haven &apos;t contributed .
and these are just the biohackers , the individual people .
in part , with these hackerspaces , these places are put together .
