you know , one of the great reasons for traveling , and one of the joys about ethnography research is to live with the people who can still remember the old days , who still feel their past in the wind , touch them on the rain glass , taste them in the bitter leaves of plants .
and that &apos;s the very beginning .
now , the problem with this is that even those of us who have the sympathy for the difficult situation of the native , look at them as orginial and colorful , but they kind of narrow to the past , while the real world , that is , our world , is going on .
as i said , two-thousandth , it just started .
and hackerspaces , you know , the computer hackerspaces , because the c-base in berlin was the first , ninety-hundred .
and this has now become a huge network of very good , yes , infrastructural centers that are represented all over the world .
and we &apos;re hoping , of course , that we &apos;re going to spread similarly , and then we &apos;re going to be similarly connected , so that there are more people who can be involved .
and i would invite every time to deal with it and also try something .
together , the myriad cultures of the world form a web of spiritual and cultural life that wraps the earth and is as important for the good of the earth as the biological life web that you know as the biosphere .
now it &apos;s not that simple , but it &apos;s not impossible , if you have enough curiosity and you put enough energy in there , you get a long way .
thank you for listening .
that &apos;s it .
yeah , hello .
how do we actually work for people ?
so , the fact is that you will remember the 20th century , 300 years from now , not for your wars or your technical innovations , but rather than an era where we &apos;ve been in and the massive destruction of biological and cultural diversity on earth either actively supported or passively accepted . so the problem is not the change .
this is a question that i &apos;m very moved by as a designer , but also in the field of research , usability , and most of all things in the user experience .
it &apos;s about how to encounter people in interactive media , so that they can use these interactive media , so that they can create a most satisfying experience .
because i think that interactive media in us is addressing archaic , cognitive models , which are the paradigms that were programmed in our biological memory a very , very long time ago , and that we can recreate that by interactive media .
and this is very amazing , because you actually believe that this high-tech that you &apos;re facing is actually going to get you into the future , but in fact , it &apos;s the future that &apos;s right with us , in our archaic roots .
now , what are archaic models ?
i wrote down four words once , and i &apos;d like to explain them briefly .
in archaic cognitive models , these are the models that we &apos;ve adapted to in pre-industrial times .
now , these archaic models are that we have a natural relationship to virtuality .
that sounds basically unusual first .
but i &apos;m going to go back to that in a moment , and i &apos;m going to try to prove to you that you also have a natural relationship to virtuality .
all cultures have been involved in the dance of new possibilities of life .
the second thing is that since this archaic model , we &apos;ve been able to talk very , very visually , even though we &apos;re using a codified language today .
and the third area , which actually explains itself .
we all know that interactive media is nonlinear by definition , which involves the reasoning of linearity , and what tells us , of course , that we now feel the linearity as normal .
the fourth point is that the story for us is a place of information .
now , what about the virtuality , which is actually the most natural thing in the world .
i want to prove that to you .
how many doors does the house have in which you live ?
we &apos;re not going to be able to answer that to me immediately , but this is what &apos;s going to happen , and it &apos;s going to happen right now .
they go through this house in the mind , so they live in , and they look at how many doors there are .
and that &apos;s exactly what they do .
and the problem is not the technology itself .
they virtualize reality without computers .
fantastic , right ?
and this is where we &apos;re trying to do a media campus , for example , to show virtual reality in our v.r. lab , where we can actually do that all the time .
and that capacity to virtualize the virtual reality that people have had to have in the pre-industrial times , because they didn &apos;t have anything .
they didn &apos;t have books .
or they didn &apos;t have photographics .
they didn &apos;t have mass media .
the only thing they had was their head .
and in this head , the memory was played .
in this head , knowledge was called off , and with these virtual images , the imagination , knowledge has just been passed on .
the sioux indians didn &apos;t listen less to sioux than they &apos;re doing bow and arrow , when americans stopped being american when they &apos;re doing horses and horses .
and that &apos;s why it &apos;s so much embedded in us that we can deal with virtuality so well .
the interesting thing about this is , if i can take a little trip .
yeah , that &apos;s it .
what &apos;s interesting about this is that at that time , the human being was simultaneously media producers and medium itself .
now , if you think a little bit further .
what are media today ?
then you &apos;ll notice that there was a change .
but i &apos;ll talk about that in a minute .
crucial tools of information processing have been stories all the time .
shamanes , priests , so-called knowledge guards , were extra disconnected to preserving knowledge in stories .
not change and technology threatens the integrity of the ethnosphere . it &apos;s power . ugly face of rule .
and even today , we &apos;re still very , very strong about stories .
the author of the book the storytelling animal , jonathan gottschall , we still connected thousands of hours a year with the recipe of stories .
that means to a child who has spent most of his life recepting stories until the age of the grandma .
now we think our love for stories depends on us as a child sitting on our parents &apos; lap .
no , no , no , no , no .
this is much further back in the cultures of pre-industrial times .
but to me , in the realm of interactive media , as a particularly impressive thing is that we have anchored by se in our biological memory , the ability to think nonlinear .
i &apos;ve brought you an example of the nootka indian norkanic tribe .
and the lives lived in the coastal region of british columbia .
and as you can see , this is a very island area , and you have to sort of navigate from island to island to get food .
and they did this with what &apos;s called the lead-landcards .
now , you may know that if you &apos;re a little bit interested in this , in the australian indians .
they have similar principles .
they don &apos;t have lead-landcards , they used the so-called songlines , or even grief lanes .
and what &apos;s interesting about this is that the navigation and the topography of regions could be represented by songs .
where the language was subordinated by subordinated rang .
that is , you navigated on sound and about rhythm .
and these sounds and this rhythm have shown the geology , the topography of a region , and that has also , of course , allowed you to defragment these songs and put them together differently and move back to the left , to the right , and also to the output .
why don &apos;t we sing to get from the top of a to b ?
anyway , not to navigate .
or if we go to the mountains of tibet , where i recently study a lot , you &apos;ll see the ugly face of political dominance .
what &apos;s actually happened ?
what happened is , this is the named machine age .
we &apos;ve moved to what we call the avian age before .
what happened is the machine age , and what happened is the book , and it happened is the photo graphics .
and that &apos;s what &apos;s happened is that we &apos;ve shifted responsibility for our memories and our individual memories of production to external media .
the book and the picture .
so we have , unfortunately , to virtualize a piece of god .
virtuality has suddenly become alien to us , and has nothing to do with reality .
bruce brown , a famous design researcher at brighton university , has gone so far as to say that this mass media , he says the book and the picture , so not the television , the internet and so on , and so on , what we now call mass media , that this mass media of our memories have fossilized and our ability to virtualize .
let &apos;s make a little intersection .
you know , the genocide , the physical extinction of people is generally convicted , but the ethnostic , the destruction of people &apos;s lifestyle , is not only convicted , but in general and in many places as part of a developmental strategy .
from the age of aviation to the machine age .
what is it about our thinking and our memory ?
then these are interconnected influences of pre-industrial cultures .
and they &apos;re more and more headed over the centuries by the influences of the machine age .
that is , instead of remembering ourselves , we have standardized , widespread patterns of memories that we can hang our personal memories on .
we don &apos;t produce ourselves anymore .
we have an abstract language of abstract language .
we don &apos;t think about it anymore in images , and we don &apos;t think about it in images , but we codify it as our language .
we &apos;ve been used to things linear happening .
and we &apos;ve accepted the linearity as a law , and there are only exceptions , like the non-linearity .
and you can &apos;t understand the suffering of tibetans if you haven &apos;t experienced it at the bottom level .
what we &apos;ve stayed with is the storytelling .
still , we &apos;re very , very arrested with the story as information processing .
the question is , what &apos;s next ?
we had the vog age , we had the machine age , and we now describe what we call the cyber-age .
it sounds very spacious , and it sounds very much like science fiction , i know .
but these concepts of cyber-age , they bring us these capabilities back to our ability to rediscover .
it &apos;s about virtuality , it &apos;s about non-linearity , it &apos;s about storytelling .
i want to just explain a little bit about that .
there are technical concepts like augmented reality , which is augmented reality .
so if you look at google glass , for example , this is a concept that recombines the virtual world with the real world , which is our affinity to virtualize , to feel the virtual as something normal , natural , is reviewed .
i once traveled with a young colleague of 6,000 miles from chengdu in west china across southeast tibet to lhasa , and only when i came to lhasa , i saw the face behind the statistics that you hear about : 6,000 sacred monuments that were turned into rubble and ashes . 1.2 million people who were murdered in the cultural revolution by the cades .
another example is what we call virtual reality .
so crazy , of course , in the context of my talk , we &apos;re moving physically in non-existing virtual worlds , right after the holodeck model .
and others are the ambients , intelligent systems .
these are spaces that can respond cleverly to a human .
you can think of this cultural web as an ethnosphere . ethnosphere can be defined as the sum of all thoughts and dreams , myths of ideas , inspections and intuitions that have been generated by the human imagination since the beginnings of consciousness .
all of this requires the ability , our basic ability to accept virtuality as a real habitat .
i graduated , and i hope the video will work , a very , very beautiful project , which is the bachelor work of michael burk , ann-kathrin krence , joris klause and jan-moritz waste .
and the two last two are here today .
maybe you can get up for a second so that they can have a conversation with the two of them on the project .
and i brought this project back as an example of how to be addressed to this archaic , cognitive model .
the whole thing is a game , i have to say .
the father of this young man was identified as the tag of the panchen lama .
which , of course , is extremely opposite to the story story , and it &apos;s a computer game .
and when i say computer games , they &apos;re very likely to be able to see that some people in front of any console , or that they &apos;re playing with those with any console in their hand .
anyway , they do that in there .
this is a game for the outside .
and this is meant to be able to explore the outside world , so i &apos;m going to rediscover the real world .
and this game connects the virtual world , so the data that we &apos;re producing is the data space that we &apos;re producing with the real world .
i apologize that i have to cut so much .
you can explain that in just a moment , and there &apos;s a lot more to it .
and that is , i &apos;m discovering a city by looking at which places were positive or negative .
and so i get a very different view from the city , a very different impression , which is that i see negative and positive zones of a city , and so i get a very different virtual map of a very real city .
that meant that he was instantly killed during the chinese invasion .
and now we can look at that .
ah , what you can see here , sorry , is another little explanation of what you &apos;re about to see .
of course , this virtual world lives in the walls of our cities , it &apos;s clear .
and with a kind of flashlight , we can see these virtual worlds .
so , i &apos;d like to summarize this by saying my talk , in the sense that the properties and the skills that we &apos;ve acquired from the voice-age , and that we &apos;ve gone a little bit shattered in the machine age , that they can be reactivated with the so-called cyber age , and that in this way , we can get back to our roots in this way .
thank you .
yeah , i &apos;m very happy to be with you .
i &apos;ve just been asked if this sack is a talking bag , and mine is going to talk .
he &apos;s not going to do that .
i &apos;m also going to resolve what &apos;s in there .
his uncle flew with her holiness to the diaspora , which brought people to nepal .
but so far i &apos;m just going to make it a little bit curious .
yes , children are naturally curious , or should be curious , designers too .
i &apos;m a designer of house , so , of course , i &apos;m also looking at the subject of curiosity , and how does curiosity change the way we think again , and why are we going to lose curiosity and have to repel it , and so on and so forth .
this is a whole range of things that you &apos;re looking at next to the actual existence as a gesture .
when professors get curious , they &apos;re often pushed into this kind of n research semester .
and that &apos;s also what i &apos;ve had in the last half-year .
a research semester on natural user interface design .
now you &apos;re going to ask yourself , why are all the designers starting to engage with such natural , archaic forms of communication , interaction and so on ?
and i &apos;m just holding one of these little devices up because things are supposed to be more intuitive , more and more natural , user-friendly , and then you have to look at what &apos;s natural to us as humans , what &apos;s user-friendly or intuitive .
and in the background , i &apos;ve been in the realm of natural user interface design , so the next generation of the human computer in which the human computer relates to how our tools , or how the computer changes from the computer to the digital assistant .
his mother was locked in as a punishment for being wealthy for the crime .
so i &apos;ve been looking at this , when is it natural or intuitive ?
maybe you have to look back at it again .
why does this happen at all ?
so if we look at the evolution of our society , represented here briefly , we &apos;re now moving from the third to the fourth generation of society or social form .
so from modern to computer society .
every society is shaped by a primary medium .
at the beginning , the tribal society through language .
that means that you &apos;ve found yourself talking a common language , you &apos;ve been able to communicate with each other , you &apos;ve been drawn to the same cave , you &apos;ve been educating cities , you &apos;ve been forming villages , and you &apos;ve been creating , you know , tribal society .
but the primary medium was language , something very natural , something very living .
now , you also had to learn , so no small child can talk from nature , but we &apos;re learning to sukessive and proportionately .
he was smuggled into prison at the age of two to hide under her rockcippet , because she couldn &apos;t live without him .
this was then dissolved by the ancient society and the first form of abstraction .
this was a huge outcry at the time , because , of course , you started manifest the living language in the form of writing , which is what fluid and life is , i start and i carve it in stone and i manipulate it with it .
depending on how i throw and when i throw , of course , it &apos;s a very different narrative , as if it &apos;s alive , it &apos;s kind of like .
but sukessive then moved this script as a primary medium to get in .
and then the next generation that we &apos;re actually living in today .
this is just the printing and print coined script with gutenberg and others .
at the time , it was just like a monkey ront , where adel , klerus and others said , are you insane when people start reading , they want to talk afterwards , and of course , that &apos;s completely fatal .
and now we &apos;re going to get to the next generation , and the exciting thing is , a generation change is just every few hundred years , and we &apos;re really in this phenomenal phase right now that we &apos;re going to be doing this .
of course , we &apos;re totally confused by this because we see on the one hand the new media , social media , facebook and so on .
with total transparency , what the new thinking is , what bangs on old thinking , doesn &apos;t say that in the lasagne horse meat and no more beef or other phenomena , which is , i want to screw this up and i want to do it .
the sister who did this brave action was brought to a education camp .
and these two worlds are just crawling up , new and old thinking .
what &apos;s exciting about this is , if you look at this , this new society , this computer society , is rejecting a lot of mechanisms , principles and archaic paradigm from the tribal society .
now , not anymore at the local level , but at the global level .
we &apos;ve understood that the weather is global .
that the theme of ecology is a global issue .
not if i think locally ecologically here , and the neighbor thinks less ecologically , it doesn &apos;t work anymore .
so , from the local village , it &apos;s actually become a global village with the same principles , of course , possible , intuitively , but also the total transparency .
as you knew in the village then , who has something with whom and when , this is happening today about this extension of ourselves through these mobile devices on a global level .
whether we accumulate global and accumulate faster and faster and better .
just as it used to happen in the village .
and one day , she stepped into a wristband of maos , and for this exaggeration , she had to go to a hard job camp for seven years .
now , in the background , i &apos;ve just been looking at this , what does it mean , in fact , what &apos;s natural for us , what might we have lost , but what &apos;s instinctive for us , so what makes the difference ?
because people often come , they can &apos;t make it user-friendly so that everyone can deal with it .
so you have to deal with what that means , and not just change it , it &apos;s different , but it should be better .
and of course , when is a little intuitive , and how can i , as a creator , take the influence and make things so that they &apos;re user-friendly , so you can be intuitive , because then they &apos;re fun and they &apos;re easy to use .
you &apos;re going to be busy , even during the study , with the subject of perception and of perceptual psychology .
and that &apos;s , of course , where you start and look and say , okay , now i just look inside yourself .
and what does it look like in there ?
so how do we work when we look in there ?
and what does it mean , of course , intuitively , and how do our channels of perception work , and how does cognitive processing work ?
because steve jobs once said , you need to go to dig deeper to understand it works .
the suffering of tibetans can be intolerable , but the triggering spirit of people is something unforgettable .
so you really have to look in detail , if i want to make something user-friendly or intuitive , what does that mean at the core .
and you can see already that you have a our seven senses , most of you think we &apos;ve only got five , now it &apos;s even seven , there &apos;s certainly the next , eighth sense coming in , and also , as an extension of ourselves .
and to look at how do we process information , how do we pick up information ?
to say , what is information ?
information is every difference that makes a difference .
many people use the word , but they don &apos;t even know what it means in detail .
but i have to understand at the core , in nature , when is information going to become information , when is data going to know information , and from information , so that i know how to make things really intuitive , or , of course , handable afterwards .
and of course , how does design affect perception .
we see this here , when i make things , i can make them confusing like on the right , where i don &apos;t know what &apos;s salt and pepper , or i can sort of intuitively design them by showing things .
so much more natural , much in a pot , but i kind of see where &apos;s salt and pepper in there .
and at the end , we &apos;re really in front of a choice . do we want to live in a monochromatic world of monotonia , or in a polychromatic world of diversity ?
and when i tell someone , give me salt or pepper , they &apos;ll be thinking on the right , where &apos;s in it .
and just taking intuitive access to the left , and hopefully not a sugar in it , giving the salt the same way .
but also our perception of ourselves , as it fails us .
for example , this perception in context .
the right circle looks bigger than the small one , even though that &apos;s not the case at all , but they &apos;re the same size , and yet our perception changes , depending on what context we put things in .
does anybody know what that is ?
come on .
pattern recognition should work .
there &apos;s more to my glasses than that .
so it &apos;s the n circle .
margaret mead , the great anthropologist said before she died , that her greatest fear is that , as we move towards a thread , unshaped , generic view , we would not only see the entire range of human imagination reduced in a mindful way of thinking , but that one day we woke up from a dream and forgot that there were other possibilities .
a second circle is already starting to correlate or associate certain similarity .
and then , if i put another halboval in there , we don &apos;t just see one more unit at a time , which is circle , circle and , but we see a unit , we don &apos;t see any more three parts , a circle , a circle , another .
the ethnosphere is the great legacy of humanity .
this is called the gestalt law , or just gestalt psychology , which also affects us in perception .
it &apos;s important for the designers , they usually have this in the first semester , the great design laws .
the shape laws of the nearby law , of the continuity and so on .
often in the third , forget about it .
but this is an essential component , if you want to make things very intuitive in the same way .
the next phenomenon , which is also very interesting to see .
sounds like a banal , but it &apos;s really exciting when you get closer to it .
so we have the eyes in the front , and now you think we &apos;re looking from the front to the back .
and it &apos;s humbling to think that maybe our species has existed for 600,000 years .
that &apos;s wrong .
you can see the first time from the back to the front .
that is , they projief a premise that they see something that they recognize , unprecedented circle .
that is , we &apos;re only projecting our vision before we see it , bringing it back into our seaweed machine , to say , okay .
i have so much cognitive feedback , you projieved what you want to see .
so that &apos;s there , that &apos;s coming back .
and then it goes back forward , because that &apos;s not what you want to see in the back , and it says , well , please look again , and i &apos;m sure that what you see is also what you want to see .
and then it goes back to the back , and then it &apos;s actually just seen .
so a very , very exciting process of how certain things are going on , and in what for millisecond areas , these things are happening .
i don &apos;t know who of you know this picture .
the neolithic revolution that brought us agriculture , and at that moment , submitted us to the cult of the seed , the poetry of the shame by the prose of the priesthood , and created hierarchy , specialization and surplus -- only 10,000 years ago .
that &apos;s exactly what i &apos;ve just described .
now , everybody in this pattern is trying to see something .
i don &apos;t know who recognizes something .
anybody see anything in particular ?
a dalmatiner , exactly .
once i saw that , that &apos;s a dalmatiner in there , you know that .
you &apos;ll never forget it because i &apos;m going to show you where the dalmatiner is .
now you see the dalmatiner .
and further , now you always see it .
that is , i &apos;ve actually spoiled them now that they don &apos;t recognize any pattern in it , but i &apos;ve conditioned them in a very short time to see this dog in this obscure image .
the modern industrial world as we know it is hardly 300 years old .
and this is this projection of vision , feedback , seeing .
now i know , and now i &apos;m projieving forward that i see the dalmatina .
i see the dalmatiner .
so , very , very exciting processes , which then , in this , yes , gray is not , but it &apos;s just going to happen here in this rosane mass .
does anybody know what three seconds are ?
long , yeah .
that &apos;s our present .
so , it &apos;s always interesting to know as designers .
if i know something takes three seconds to sort of get out of the present , into the past loop , i can also bridge very well wait times in which i &apos;m always employing someone at three seconds .
he &apos;s got to process that as a present .
now , this shallow story doesn &apos;t tell me that we have all the answers to the challenges that we face in the coming millennia .
then it goes into the past , and so i can bridge very elegantly wait times , for example , on the computer , if i know this phenomenon .
what does fifty milliseconds take ?
yeah , milliseconds .
it &apos;s also a very exciting phenomenon .
this is the time when you fall in love .
that means , if you know that now , look at who you &apos;re looking at for a long time , because i &apos;m not taking over a gun for what can happen .
and six milliseconds , also a very exciting phenomenon .
that &apos;s the time period of most perceptions that we have .
that is , this first impression happens at a rapid speed , as we perceive things .
and as we also see things , what we &apos;re looking at , and how we &apos;re sort of assuring ourselves against our environment , so that we can think about that in a way .
if we ask these countless world cultures about the importance of being human , they answer with 10,000 different voices .
of course , the designers are not only dealing with the subject of perceptions and neural processing , or cognitive sergonomy , but primarily , of course , with the subject of human object relationship .
so , how does a human being deal with certain things ?
there &apos;s a product linguistically the practical functions , so formalesthetic aspects or formalesthetic aspects .
there are signature functions , where i know exactly where to reach .
but there are also symbolic functions , why is there anyone for such a small dairy where hardly anything fits in there anyway , so horrendous amounts of money , even though it &apos;s not so practical ?
we &apos;re more likely to be at the symbolic level , at the level of meaning , which , of course , we &apos;re also concerned with as a creator .
back to my actual theme of natural user interface and the subject , which is , of course , usability .
usability always means , how can i quickly achieve a certain goal , or how can a user in a certain context of use be able to achieve an effective , efficient and satisfying goal ?
that &apos;s how it says the norm .
how can i make something very useful ?
and in this song , we &apos;re going to be able to rediscover the possibility of being what we are : people with full consciousness who are aware of the importance that all humans and gardens have to be able to thrive a space , and there are great moments of optimism .
can i use that directly , or do i need a manual , or do i need to do it .
and less usable or usable is it .
that i &apos;m just doing it differently and more beautiful doesn &apos;t mean it &apos;s better handable .
you also have to understand that .
and in part , if you look at the software that we &apos;ve just seen , you &apos;ll also understand why ninety-nine percent of our software today is less intuitive or unintuitive , including the i-pad in many areas or i-phone , although it &apos;s much more intuitive than classic software .
now , intuitive usability is not only since apple is a fundamental economic factor , a fundamental factor of success , if i just want to use technology to make people usable .
why ?
because usually we &apos;re going to be able to use this new kind of usability , which is the natural user ínterfaces , for example , five times faster on average on our goal .
so you have to imagine that if you do something of the classic softer commodity , it takes five hours and this new kind of natural software just an hour .
that doesn &apos;t mean that you &apos;re probably going to be allowed to go home for four hours , but you &apos;re going to be a employer , or somebody &apos;s going to fall in the way that they &apos;re working on the four hours .
here &apos;s a picture i took at the north end of the baffin islands when i went to the narwhal hunt with inuits , and this man , olaya , told me a wonderful story of his grandfather .
but i want to say that , of course , for us , it &apos;s a corresponding increase in performance , to get certain things .
if we then go back to the software area , the first command line interfaces , which were very abstract , where it took months to deal with these systems .
and then the next one , which has been working with the nem neural model , or mental model , as the software eergonoma said , was that you would have an idea of something , the metaphor , the metaphor of a desktop , to make the computer usable .
so not more zeros and ones or kryptic codes , but a metaphor .
that made it much more user-friendly , but it &apos;s also , of course , much better .
the next generation of graphic user surfaces is working a lot more with behavior .
so , as a creator , i &apos;m much more likely to shape behavior than it looks .
this is also a paradigm shift .
that i suddenly look less and less important for success , and the usability is becoming an application .
and then , if i go one step further into this natural user interfaces , where i vote by voice , by language , by touch , by gesture , by mouse and cursor , i have to control things even faster , and i &apos;m even more immediate .
the canadian government didn &apos;t always do very well with the inuit , and over the 50th years , in the process of establishing our rule , they were forced to move into settlements .
but that also leads me to the point where things are actually getting more intuitive ?
when you get more intuitive , and then i have to put my little friend back in here and see , what does that mean from the perspective of cognitive gonomy , when is it really a little intuitive ?
and that &apos;s always a little intuitive for us , if i have to think very little about it .
so , apparently , he doesn &apos;t want to think , but he wants to make it easy in proportion .
the less i think about it , the more intuitive it is .
and what does that mean for the designer ?
so if we look at the fact that we can transfer existing action models from one to another , for example , the metaphor , i can use that as a shape .
that is , i can transmit an intuitive , human action model to a software to make the software much more usable .
of course , the question is , what is the most intuitive act of us human beings , and now i &apos;ve already betrayed it ?
this is what &apos;s called the osit-model .
the grandfather of this old man refused .
this is what each of us uses , and osit is an acronym and stands for more oriented , selective , informed , transformed .
that &apos;s what each of you does all the time , but it does it unconsciously , and it kind of intuitively or partly instinctively .
the model is already exploded in the womb , and it &apos;s interculturally , so it works in the world at young and old , and it &apos;s used by us all the time , without most of us knowing that this model is there .
osit osit itself becomes about 50 to 70-odd thousand times of us ever after activity , so what you &apos;ve found in the sleep is that it &apos;s less likely to be punished than it is during the day .
i can now orient this mental action model , select , inform , translate to an interaction system .
and through this kind of transmission , similar to the metaphor of the desktop , but now not a metaphor of a physical object , but a metaphor of an action pattern , a action principle .
and this is on a higher grail of user kindness than the transmission of a classic metaphor , which is the desktop .
and if i transfer that now , for example , where i &apos;m going to orient as a supervision , selective as a choice , inform in the trap , it &apos;s going to come up to me , i can look at it in detail , and yes , i can also throw it somewhere , or send it in , and so on .
then i can transmit the whole thing .
i &apos;m going to try this through an example .
the family who was afraid of his life took off all the guns and all the tools .
now , everybody &apos;s eaten cake .
supervision : now i &apos;m kind of interacting with the object , can zoom back out , can zoom in .
i &apos;ll get the whole overview , and i can now filter this and say , just show me all the chocolate things .
and all of a sudden , you have an interface , which is much more intuitive and much more natural .
because i can grab things like the bits , touch them , and they come up to me , is much more natural than if you can , through hierarchical websites or other mechanisms , sort of , make these things available .
imagination is more important than knowledge , and with that phrase , i &apos;d also like to conclude , a and again , to give the clues , designers also have to think differently to come up with new solutions , and in that sense , i thank you very much for your attention and request .
it &apos;s the symbol of all of what we are , and what we are capable of as an astonishing white species .
i want to give you a very specific aspect of curiosity .
the first one , when you grow up as a child , as a baby , is that you take care of what kind of divorce you have , right ? and depending on whether your parents have allowed you to play more or less in the pottery and move , the more , as you say , your curiosity is , of course , blown in .
and the curiosity can &apos;t learn .
that &apos;s why all of you who are here are curious are , in fact , people who have a property that you can &apos;t learn .
now , you have to know that the inuit is not afraid of the cold . they used it for their advantage .
now , i &apos;m going to talk about basically this whole environmental debate , global demise , 40 years of club-of-rome , to get quality .
and there &apos;s a central point to this .
and it depends on phosphorus .
give pee a chance .
every day they give + they give off about two grams of phosphorus , and every day they have to pick up two grams of phosphorus .
otherwise you can &apos;t have teeth .
you can &apos;t store energy .
you can &apos;t have bones .
we could only glide through the world &apos;s ocean as amorph mollusks .
in fact , if we don &apos;t take a phosphorus and we give it off .
the slides of their sledges were originally made out of fish that was wrapped in caribbean skin .
and the amazing thing is that we &apos;re looking at something here , which is actually self-understanding , but it &apos;s not like that .
because everybody is talking about energy , but nobody is talking about the phosphorus problem .
the phosphorus problem is much more critical .
we depend on two countries .
we only have phosphorus for two years , and already , through the phosphorus mining , a lot more uranium in the world than we use in all the nuclear plants .
in the last 20 years alone , five thousand tons of uranium have been distributed on our fields in germany .
and that &apos;s what we &apos;re recording .
it makes leukemia in children .
and we think we would protect the environment if we &apos;re a little less harmful .
so , for example , shake the environment , drive less car .
the man &apos;s grandfather was not afraid of the arctic night or the blowing storm .
shake the environment , make less waste .
shake the environment , use less energy .
but that &apos;s not a protection .
this is like , if i said , shake your child , it &apos;s only three times instead of five times .
that &apos;s just a little less destroyment .
if we think from the weighs to the bathroom , then our whole earth will sooner or later become a cemetery .
it &apos;s about thinking about the weighs of the weighs .
and the most important thing is to look at the ground , first of all .
in the ground , over six percent of the carbon is stored .
at the moment , we &apos;re building corn , and we &apos;re losing between 11 and 30 kilograms of a kilogram per hectare , or in the square meter .
he came out , and he dropped his pants out of seaweed , and he defected his hand , and when the feces started freezing , he shaped them into the form of a knife .
that means we lose about five thousand times more in the ground than we are reforming .
we can , of course , look at the landfill problem .
and everything is packed or content .
for example , in openness , 20 percent of the garbage is now windmill .
and as we get older , the wind gets bigger .
that &apos;s all of them in the pre-wind phase , in some sense .
yeah ?
a baby needs about six thousand wind .
we could , of course , reduce that by 10 percent , but what does that do ?
this is balanced in china in a second .
he sprayed saliva on the sides of the fecal knife , and when it was frozen , he was amazed by a dog .
this is completely trivial .
so the question is , how do we deal with these winds ?
here &apos;s one of the proof , by the way , that men are not pigs .
i want to tell you .
because the phosphorus is given to the pigs about the solid ingredients .
people over the urine .
yeah .
so men can &apos;t be pigs .
because that &apos;s the case , right ?
traditionally , we think in the environmental debate , we &apos;re too many in the world .
he contained the dog , and he improvised the dishes , took the dog &apos;s skeleton , and he improvised a sled , and he relaxed another dog , and he swore over the ice sheets with the fecal knife on the belt .
and if you tell people that if you tell people to exist , if you say that it would be better , you wouldn &apos;t be there , they get refined and hostile .
and so someone like al gore , one of our great heroes , there &apos;s nothing more important than stabilizing the human population .
in israel , if you save a human life , you save the earth .
here it says , the more you kill , the better .
yeah .
the first question is , are we really too many ?
if you look at the ants , the weight of the ants on earth , the ants weigh about four times more than we humans .
i could also take termites , but in the united states , no one likes termites , even though they &apos;re vegetarian .
that is , the ants weigh much more than we do .
and because they &apos;re working a lot harder physically than we are , and because they &apos;re only living three to six months , they &apos;re in their weight , in the energy consumption , a little 30 billion people .
this is how you can do something from nothing .
that means we &apos;re not too many , we &apos;re too stupid , right ?
and where you see how far we are away from what we really wanted to achieve and could , and how sad we are , that we &apos;re at all on earth , you can see that , for example , openness has a program , up to 20 , you want to be here , climaneutral , right ?
you can only be climaneutral if you don &apos;t exist , right ?
the only chance .
have you ever seen a climate-neutral tree ?
yeah ?
one ?
that is , all of our intelligence means that we want to be dumb as trees , right ?
yeah ?
no tree is carbon neutral .
and this , in many ways , is a symbol of the resistance of inuit and all the indigenous people in the world .
luckily , not , right ?
there &apos;s no overpopulation problem with trees .
there are still six billion trees in the amazon alone .
you &apos;ve heard about some of the overpopulation problems of trees ?
that means all of our intelligence means that we want to be grimmer as trees .
and where you see , even at something like demeter , the most strict bio-agriculture , doesn &apos;t allow our own metabolic products to go back .
every year we lose three million tons of phosphorus that really have to go back in circles .
and we &apos;re too many of them .
just about that .
that means we feel so guilty about the earth that we say , there &apos;s no bio-land , no bioland , no natural progression , and as they all do , that allow our own excrements to go back .
the canadian government gave the inuit in april , 1999 , the complete control over an area bigger than california and texas combined .
isn &apos;t that sad ?
we &apos;re too many of them .
it certainly makes sense to be less harmful in terms of oil use .
but where are we useful ?
we &apos;re trying to minimize our ecological footprint , but it &apos;s about having a big footprint that &apos;s useful .
we want to be good for society , we want to be good for the economy , but when it comes to the environment , the highest thing is not to be there , right ?
nullemissions , right ?
you can only have nullemissions if you &apos;re not there .
even if you were to shoot yourself now , you would have emissions .
so you can &apos;t solve that at all .
it &apos;s our new home country called nunavut .
we can do it differently .
we can regain our nutrients .
we make agriculture in brazil where we reclaim the nutrients .
now , this is the way we can get nutrients back in agriculture in this way .
we do this in china , for example , where we take the waste directly .
in china , a desktop is still a honey pot , so to speak , right ?
and in our western world , we &apos;ve always been too stupid to bring our nutrients back .
and just as the biosphere has been highly rejected , this has happened with the ethnosphere -- just at even greater speed .
that is , the whole western civilizational history is because the city has only taken over , but has never given back to the farmers .
and as a result , cities had to grow more and more , because the farmers went to the cities , and the cities had to keep getting their nutrients away .
that &apos;s why all the western kingdoms are always expanded until they didn &apos;t get the infrastructure , and then they &apos;re imploded .
it &apos;s an independent area . they control all the minerals .
yeah ?
in china , it was different .
you &apos;ve been able to have civilization over five thousand years , because you &apos;ve always been able to bring the nutrients back .
even today , if you &apos;re invited to eat in china , you &apos;re expecting to eat until you pick up the toilet .
because it &apos;s unfriendly to go and take the nutrients .
they &apos;ve been invited to eat them , not for nutrient theft .
that is , you can see on the internet how to regain the nutrients .
now , the beauty of this is , if you do this , you do this , agriculture , generating biogas , on a hectare country with five thousand people in favelas , it can produce about a thousand-thousand-dollar farmer , and the facility with this , chickens and pigs , and ducks and vegetables and fish .
and the great thing about this is that the crime rate in the favelas goes back over ninety-nine percent .
so we don &apos;t have to control people to be very little bad .
an amazing example , like a nation , a state that can seek and achieve recurrence with its inhabitants .
we can support them to be good .
this is , of course , high-tech agriculture , but the plants carry themselves .
the byproduct is clean water .
and they &apos;re designed by the design that a farmer can just manage them .
that is , the crime rates go back .
and none of these facilities , we &apos;ve now built over hundreds of fifty in the last 20 years , none of these facilities have ever been sabotted .
you could just throw a liter of alert in so easily , and then the plant would be ruined over years .
it &apos;s not happening .
that means we don &apos;t have to control people , to be very little bad .
we can support them to be good .
and finally , i think it &apos;s pretty obvious , at least for those of us who have traveled to these distant goals of the earth , to realize that they &apos;re not at all distant .
that means we need to get phosphorus back .
and by the way , if you want to do something out of it , you write down , in germany , the best way to do it is to do it in frankfurt .
unfortunately , they &apos;re not in openness , but maybe they can help the frankfurters a little bit .
because the frankfurter facility could best regain the phosphorus .
and it has to go back .
we see that phosphorus is really critical .
and we see that it &apos;s going through .
we &apos;ve been working in holland for three years now .
the dutch government has explained that they will be the first country in the world to reclaim phosphorus .
but we need that in total .
they &apos;re the home countries of someone .
you know , there are two countries that control almost seventh percent of the world &apos;s phosphorus incidents .
there &apos;s opec a bunch of orphans .
that &apos;s six-and-twenty countries controlling 40 percent of the oil supply .
and we &apos;re going to be able to replace the oil with other energy carriers .
but you &apos;re not going to be able to replace the phosphorus .
that &apos;s not about making the existing a little bit less bad , but it &apos;s about making something right .
and most of all , it &apos;s asking what &apos;s the right thing to do .
that is , it &apos;s about efficiency , not about efficiency .
in holland , of course , you can understand this easier , because in holland , the country is built on flowers .
yeah ?
they represent part of the human imagination that goes back in recent times , and for all of us , the dreams of these children , like the dreams of our own children , become part of the geography of hope .
imagine , for example , if your wife is sad , if you &apos;ve annoyed her , and you come with 50 roses .
completely inefficient .
but really , really , really , right ?
or take a lip pen .
a woman in germany eats about six comma three kilograms during her life .
there we go .
that &apos;s not exactly right scientifically , because we don &apos;t know how much is being kissed away .
but a lip pen , even in that illumination , i can tell you , is completely inefficient , but really effective , right ?
one of the things that &apos;s beautiful in life is not efficient .
that &apos;s not resource efficiency , it &apos;s efficiency .
what we end up trying to do at national geographic is that we believe that politicians never do anything .
to ask , what is the right thing to do ?
not to burn the seed mud a little bit better , and to deposit it it , and to lose all the materials for cycles in the burn plant , but first to ask , how do you close cycles ?
imagine mozart efficiently .
yeah ?
if i invite you to dinner and say , yes , there &apos;s a pill with open taste and a glass of water .
wonderful , huh ?
that &apos;s efficient .
all that &apos;s beautiful in life is not efficient .
if you fall in love with somebody , efficient ?
yeah ?
we believe that polemics -- we believe that polemics are not persuasive , but we believe that storytelling can change the world , and so we &apos;re probably the best institution for storytelling in the world . our website gets 35 million hits every month .
that is , all that matters in life is not to save , to avoid , to reduce .
the whole environmental debate .
we tell people , oh , you don &apos;t have an environmental awareness in the south .
no , the throwaway is just the right thing to do , right ?
every place you throw away , from , yes , you create opportunities of life again .
but the wrong things .
if you throw away the wrong things , you have a waste problem .
in the way that we think of north .
that &apos;s where every footprint is disadvantaged .
when they walk , yes , every footprint destroys the ground .
156 nations send our television channel .
because the ground is going to die off , and the wind and the water is going to wash away the soil .
but if you &apos;re in italy , every footprint means that the water is longer in the meadow .
so , it &apos;s about creating a big footprint that becomes a wetlands .
not guilt management .
we say sustainability in germany .
yeah ?
but if i ask you , how about your wife ?
so what do you say ?
sustainable .
then i say , heartfelt pity , right ?
our magazines are read by millions .
now , that &apos;s the minimum .
so not saving , paying , avoiding , avoiding .
every waste is nutrient .
and it &apos;s a lust when you see in italy , people in the high bow are smashing out of the car like that .
because , you know , this is a fun process .
it &apos;s a form of refour behavior , right ?
you can show , i was there .
but with the right design , there we go .
for example , we &apos;ve developed an ice cream package , which is at room temperature fluid .
they can throw them away where they go and stand .
and we &apos;re going to do a series of trips into the ethnosphere , where we take our audience to places of such cultural wonders that they are blinded by the seen , and hopefully , one by the other , will embrace the central revelation of anthropology : that this world deserves to exist in different ways that we can find a way of life in a really multicultural pluralistic world in which the wisdom of all people can contribute to our common well-being .
in two hours , it takes off everywhere .
and it contains seeds of rare plants so that by throwing away , they contribute to biodiversity .
that is , we &apos;re useful , not less harmful .
so there are two cycles .
not everything , of course , is supposed to be composable .
no biologist would say , for example , that 50 percent or more of all species are about to die out , because it &apos;s just not true . and yet , this -- the apocalyptic scenarium in the field of biodiversity -- is hardly equivalent to what we &apos;re known as the most optimistic scenario in the field of cultural diversity .
a tv set or a washing machine , and they &apos;re just using it , they &apos;re not using it .
just the things that are scraping , like shoes , like brakes , like authorships , they have to be like going into biological systems .
the things that are used only go into technical systems .
but today we &apos;re just talking about the biological systems .
yeah ?
thank you .
for example , the sneaker , right ?
very direct advertising , not for the puma per se company , but for helping this company to make these products successful .
because we don &apos;t make things free anymore .
yeah ?
so , if i invite you to eat and say , this is free of chicken , it doesn &apos;t help you .
no , we &apos;re determining what &apos;s inside .
positive .
so not like detox .
not toxic in there .
it &apos;s all that &apos;s in there that &apos;s useful .
what i &apos;m going to show you , first of all , as quickly as possible , is the basic work , a new technology that we &apos;ve given microsoft as part of an exception just a year ago , which is seadragon , and it &apos;s an environment in which you can either locally or remove with huge amounts of visual data .
these are the first shoes that you can put the cavalier launch on the pedestrian , and the rubber can go into biological circles , right ?
all of these are composable .
and of course , if we can do it , we can do it for adidas , for nike , for hennes and for mauritz , and for the whole textile industry .
and that &apos;s half the world &apos;s wastewater problems that are caused by the textile industry .
that &apos;s why you &apos;re helping with it , and you &apos;re asking people for it .
hey , puma , are you really serious ?
because they &apos;ve changed the chairman twice before .
and i &apos;m not sure you &apos;re really going to be here .
so , just help me a little bit .
but it goes .
we see a lot , a lot of gigabytes of digital photographs here , which you can take seamlessly and continuously , rearrange in any way .
yeah .
what &apos;s just been represented .
this can be done .
now , we can do the things that if you swallow , if you break , you can do them in biological circles .
there &apos;s also technical cycles .
there &apos;s a direct feedback system for this .
this is the first ecological backpack , in fact , which is made to go back to the cycle .
and that too , so in every store , you can get things back .
if you come to that , right ?
do you remember the needle again ?
and it doesn &apos;t matter how much information we look at , how big these collections are , or how big the images are .
now , if that &apos;s the garbage .
all over the place , these winds are around , almost .
in the countries where people come to money .
there on the front of the deponia , but also in the landscape , right ?
if we change the plastics , so that it can go into biological systems , if we change the water stores , inside , they can go back to cellulosic base , then with a baby in israel or in tunisia , they can plant hundreds of fifty trees .
yeah ?
just when you take these diapers , you shrink them , you sterilize them , and you take the powder , and you use them to plant trees .
so the baby is carbon positive for the whole life , from the beginning .
so , we don &apos;t need to be climaneutral , we can be climate positive .
it &apos;s kind of a behavior poop print .
most of you are digital photos of a camera , but this is , for example , a scan of the library of congress , and it &apos;s in an area of 300 megapix .
yeah , sort of .
yeah ?
we can do that .
we can reinvent everything again .
i started an institute to do this .
there &apos;s a lot of people working there now , and they can all get involved .
there &apos;s an extra club , cradle to cradle , where everybody can join .
so not saving , paying , avoiding , reducing , not debt management , but intelligent waste .
does that make you curious ?
thank you .
it doesn &apos;t make any difference , because the only thing that can restrict the performance of a system like this is the number of pixels on your screen at any moment . it also has a very flexible architecture .
the work of interpreting .
music as a language .
in the description of my speech , it says that as an interpreter , i understand as a translator , in the english word sense .
interprets are translators of written notes in clinical music .
that , as a translator , you don &apos;t just have to translate the text into a different language , but you also have to understand the deeper sense of words and the wortzusm bias to make it a meaningful translation , anyone who has to do with foreign languages .
even translating from german to english can require more knowledge , because if you &apos;re talking about poetry or even about poetry .
but it &apos;s very strange for layman , which we musicians do with our music language .
as an interpreter of a piece of music , i have only the written notes .
you think that the composer put everything he &apos;s imagined in the notes .
in fact , the notes are very vague and inaccurate .
this is a whole book , an example of non-imaging data .
these notes are about as accurate or inaccurate as a verbal , even though very seemingly penile , description of a landscape .
because in this verbal description of landscape , the smell of flowers is not to smell , the degree of green , not to hear the saddle of the wind , not to feel .
that is , the interpreter has to translate these unprecedented indications of the notes language into another , which is audible , concrete , nonverbal music language .
today , i want to share with you what i otherwise do with musical translation , which is interpreting , translating back into a verbal language .
so basically , a translation of translation .
that &apos;s why i prefer to do it in german , because if i had to translate it into english again , it would be equally important for me to translate the translation of translation .
so , the music works for me as much as the spoken language .
the notified notes have the function of the letters of a script .
so it &apos;s not enough to just learn to read grades , and to press the key keys on the piano or the right place on a violin string .
because these would be just the letters that you &apos;ve learned to paint .
this is bleak house of dickens . each column is a chapter .
the point of the letters is , if you can see the language .
so you need the learning process of music language at least as long as the spoken language .
now , there &apos;s also deprivation , whether you learn it for the use , just passively understands , or you can talk actively , to the musical mother &apos;s language .
the work of interpreting starts very similar to a theater director .
after you &apos;ve chosen to play a piece first , because you &apos;re excited about it , you &apos;re going to explore the background of the composition .
you collect information about the piece in the secondary literature .
you read in the letters , the blackboards , the notes , or whether there are words , the composer &apos;s thoughts .
you study the works that he composed before and after .
you &apos;re comparing .
the motivations of writing it .
to prove that it &apos;s really a text and not a picture , we can do something like this to really show that this is a real representation of texting and not a picture .
how and what did he feel ?
what were its circumstances , like society and politics ?
that &apos;s all i &apos;m interested in .
you think of yourself in that time by , for example , looking at contemporary images or reading literature .
but over time , you also have a rich knowledge of the composer , the composer you play more and more , and it makes you easier to think and feel .
the composer is increasingly becoming a friend that you live with .
his cause of writing the piece is becoming more and more of my personal cause of playing it .
now that the notes are anything but an accurate record of the cause of the composer , but only a framework , i now turn to this framework to repair it with meaning and meaning .
i then say , in my own words , what could be written between this framework .
i &apos;m going to explain what these sounds might be like .
maybe this is an artificial way of reading an e-book .
now , for me and for the composer , and what you might mean for him today .
every note , every phrase gets a sense of it , because i feel it myself , because it comes out of my own now , personally .
it has to be coherent to me in here and now , or i can &apos;t convince my audience that this is my cause .
it &apos;s a very happy concert over and over again , if i can have the experience , the piece that i &apos;ve been working in advance for as long as i &apos;ve been able to experience .
and the key indicator for this is the extinction of languages .
how to reexperience a happy new day , even though with the same rituals of life , stand up , breakfast , go to work , i do the same piece over and over again .
i &apos;ve gotten a day older , a season switching , my pulse goes slower at night than in the morning , in a concert hall , it takes longer for the sound to come back than it is at home .
i realize breathing the audience , consciously or unconsciously .
all of this is affecting me , and all of this is also affecting my experience with composition .
it &apos;s wonderful , also , when i &apos;m standing on the stage with a duo partner , and we have the same wavelength .
and then the same thing happens in a good , friendly conversation .
i wouldn &apos;t recommend it .
you bring a new idea in , and that &apos;s how it &apos;s answered with a reaction .
it &apos;s exciting , because then things happen that we didn &apos;t try that way , and what you can &apos;t sample .
it &apos;s great fun to make music in this way , and you as the audience have then experienced the way music communicates alive .
so each concert is a different concert .
i &apos;m never going to play as much as i am at this moment .
i can &apos;t play as much as i can in 20 years .
there i &apos;m going to have more life experience than i am today , and therefore on my palette of music sounds , much more color nuances , emotions and emotions than i am today .
sure , i &apos;m going to have some color pots taken out , but i &apos;m going to get some new ones .
have a nice concrete example of this .
it was on a piano curriculum for music students in my beloved old teacher , professor jzurgen ude , a famous beethoven specialist , concert pianist and longtime professor of music college here in stuttgart .
this is a more realistic case . this is a copy of the guardian .
unfortunately , i was much too young , so he was already emerged when i finally started studying .
but i was very lucky to meet him very early , at the age of three , three , and so i was already on his classes at school .
i was seventh when i went back to one of his courses and played the last of the four ballads of chopin , a later piece .
he asked me what was the introduction of this ballet for me .
this is a contracted part of it .
and in my youth , i said , expectation .
there he was cheating , and he said , &quot; what ? &quot;
that has to be the difference in aging .
because to me , it means memory .
he was already in his 60s .
every big picture is the beginning of a section .
well , with seventh 10 , you still have dreams , but you don &apos;t have significant memories .
i &apos;m playing the piece every few years today , and it &apos;s always changed for me , even though it hasn &apos;t changed a single note .
every time it &apos;s exciting , because every time i read something new .
one example of that from a very different area . monet has painted the seerosis x .
it &apos;s always the same garden , but at different times of day , different light .
he transferred the seerosis in a different way , as he saw , as they worked on him at that moment .
his personal impressions of the seerosis .
the x-time interpretation of a piece is comparable to that .
in the meantime , i &apos;m older than chopin at the age of two and a half years when he wrote the piece .
he lived only ninety-30 years .
and that really gives you the pleasure and the good experience of reading a real paper copy of a magazine or a newspaper , which is a kind of medium with multiple scales .
and it &apos;s important for me to look back in the notes , even though i think i can memorize them .
to keep the twin , right with the composer .
because the notes are the only connection directly to him .
most of all , when he died .
now , how do you start talking about the language of music ?
i said , well , it takes about as long as the spoken language .
a lot of times , the music class is that you &apos;re learning to read the notes .
you &apos;re basically learning to read first before you just talk a word .
you learn to find the notes on the instrument .
when all the fingers are in time and right as it is in the notes , they come out , they sound like music .
we also did something at the corner of this particular copy of the guardian .
when the error is free , the student gets the next difficult piece .
now , interpretation is hardly spoken in early education .
all right , then there &apos;s presto , that &apos;s a quick piece .
lento , slowly .
it &apos;s loud , it &apos;s f and b , etc .
most of you know that .
but even if you translate those attacks , it &apos;s still just something technical .
and it &apos;s still not an interpretation .
i wonder .
i wonder that a lot of times you forget something very fundamental .
we &apos;ve designed a false display with very high resolution , which is much higher than a normal display , and we &apos;ve added additional content .
that , to make music on the instrument , you should do your musical and feel before .
that &apos;s singing .
a child who didn &apos;t learn to sing , because the parents didn &apos;t pretend , won &apos;t do it themselves .
it &apos;s like learning speech .
it &apos;s necessary to have its own experiences and ideas of music , and then it &apos;s about another possibility , about an instrument , to sound .
people who have never forgotten have never felt immediately with their own body , as it is , to form a sound .
designing a phrase with its own breath .
because the musical instrument is the extension of our body .
our vocal chords to sing , our hands and our feet to dance .
so the hammer heads in the piano are the sequel of my fingers .
if you want to see the functions of this car , you can see it here .
the melody comes from the healthy and the rhythm from the dance .
the ongoing report today with music is not promoting .
you don &apos;t need to make music yourself if you get bored .
no longer need to whistle or sing a song .
every one of your music is made up when you &apos;re constantly accused of the outside with music .
sure , there are some of you who say , yes , but what do you do if i can &apos;t sing ?
the question i ask is , can you not sing , a , because you think you can &apos;t sing ?
or b , because they didn &apos;t learn to sing ?
in both of them , it &apos;s not too late to start to see if they can &apos;t , or learn how to use these little muscles that put the vocal chords right .
because you can train that .
or other models , or even technical specifications .
or c , because they were told that they were undigestive .
so i ask , how professionally competent was this diagnosis ?
have you already gotten a second or a third opinion , how do you say it beautifully today ?
or d , you don &apos;t like music , and therefore you don &apos;t want to have to do with it .
but what i would regret , because music is a beautiful , communicative thing .
but maybe you can still agree with them .
well , you see , in all cases , no one has to be a seminal candidate .
but please don &apos;t say , i don &apos;t understand the classical music .
i can &apos;t say whether it &apos;s good or bad .
i say that , but i &apos;m sure you can tell if you like it or not .
and this really captures these ideas , these constraints for the place that &apos;s available on the screen .
because i don &apos;t think it says , i don &apos;t know if it tastes to me , because i can &apos;t cook .
so , they don &apos;t get the food , just because they can &apos;t cook .
so you don &apos;t have to get into classical music , because you don &apos;t play an instrument .
listen consciously and say whether they like it or not .
whether or not the music is too sweet to them .
say what you feel .
over time , you get claims and you want some more spices to be there or taste even fine differences .
now , why do i ask my audience that it &apos;s also active ?
because the music is a language , and a language is there to communicate .
a piece of art that you never look at has no power to work .
we hope that this is no longer a pop-ups and other nonsense -- it shouldn &apos;t be necessary .
the food that was loved by a chef or a chef has to be eaten and not just looked at or swapped out recipes .
so please listen when a music is played .
it &apos;s not just a nice sound tank .
when each of you were born in this room , 6,000 languages were spoken on earth .
if in an environment where the adult makes music , or at least active listening to music , a child grows up , it &apos;s very easy for a music teacher to ask , what color does your flower have ?
now can you play it in blue ?
and the child plays , after a memorial , instead of a red flower , a blue flower .
and this sounds very different from before .
so that was the very first start of a musical expression .
so the first step to interpretation .
and what happens when you play a piece today that was originally written a hundred , two hundred or even three hundred years ago ?
of course , mapping is one of the really obvious applications for a technology like this .
meanwhile , the instruments have evolved .
there was no piano at the moment of bachs as an instrument .
it just wasn &apos;t invented yet .
i think the stream would have been thrilled if he had the sonic possibilities of today &apos;s modern piano .
i can make the sound notions that the stream has had on the modern wing , which a barockle cembalo can &apos;t do .
you also know from beethoven that he heard more than he had become deaf .
today , a modern orchestra is able to play everything that an orchestra has rejected from then as unplayable .
so the composers on us are interpreted to reinvent the pieces .
so that they become audible , which they &apos;ve only imagined in the mind .
and also what you would think of today in the mind .
and i really don &apos;t want to spend a lot of time here , except to say that we &apos;re also going to contribute to this area .
or what i &apos;m imagining today , because what you might have thought of yourself .
thank you .
you know what envy is ?
have you ever been envy ?
and how did that feel ?
shredded .
i have a friend who drives a passerati .
and when i come , with my little v w piesel , and i &apos;m next to it , this feeling comes up .
i &apos;m going to shoot a little bit through my head .
i say , ulf , what do you need to do with a big car ?
but these are all the streets in the u.s. .
now , this loses half of his value in the first year .
and at all , you work much less than i do .
why do i have to afford that little car ?
and then i immediately come to mind , that &apos;s unfair .
it &apos;s against justice .
and as i say the word justice , this unpleasant feeling is gone .
our organism has invented a great way to make such inconvenient emotions as envy just disappear .
you can also try that with words like revenge or forestation or something like that .
i want to explain something to you today with this mechanism , or something that you &apos;re unconsciously familiar with .
the mechanism comes from the lie .
but don &apos;t think of the lies , as you may have heard , when people say , no one has the intention to build a wall .
there &apos;s a mess up at the top of nasa &apos;s outrageous picture .
and then stones are doored so that he &apos;s closing them off .
on a lie like this , you can see that the liar itself doesn &apos;t believe what he says .
it &apos;s very easy to check that it &apos;s very different in mind .
he just deceives you and not himself .
no , the lie i &apos;m talking about has to do with the fact that they deceive themselves .
you need this lie to keep a lie of life , to keep a self-deception .
they can make them less easy , yes , examine or collapse .
they need time .
from that time , an anecdote may be familiar with you .
now let &apos;s get something else out .
the spanish painter pablo picasso once portrayed a woman .
this woman then complained that the portrait would not look like her .
picasso answers , just wait .
it gets more and more similar to you .
at this point , and if you laugh , you can see how important this lie is and how much time it takes you to experience something that artists can tell us very well .
because artists have a broken relationship with the lie .
the artist is sharing something with them , and especially this lady , which she doesn &apos;t see when she just looks in the mirror .
the artist tells you something about it in such a portrait that you will only be familiar with when you look at this piece of art over and over again .
and then this unpleasant feeling disappears , because it couldn &apos;t look like you , and it &apos;s getting more and more similar to you .
here you have this mechanism where we can use the lie as a great invention for stabilizing our lives .
this is actually live on the internet now . you can check it out .
and not only in art , but in volcanoes , in mythology , in stories , it appears again .
you may know this idea of the lady who looked in the mirror every morning and asked him , who is the most beautiful one in the country ?
one day , this mirror says , yes , there &apos;s a more beautiful one .
behind the seven mountains and so on .
and you also know how much hostility you get from this true background , even the mirror can &apos;t lie , and it can &apos;t come out of this true outcome .
but we should just be familiar with the fact that you can &apos;t tell a woman that there &apos;s a more beautiful one somewhere else .
here &apos;s what we need to do , under politically correctness , to bring back and forth .
we need this lie at this point that sustains the deception without which we can even live .
we have not only in art , in folk poetry , but also in science such great lies .
and there &apos;s this story of the woman of the bischof of worchester .
this is a project called photosynth that really connects two different technologies .
she heard about this book by charles darwin , the origin of species and the ancestry of man .
that the human being should come from the monkey , and , yes , there was at least a common ancestor between humans and monkeys .
and then she ran up to her husband , and she said , well , that &apos;s probably not true what charles &apos;s writing .
the human being is supposed to come from the monkey or have a common ancestor .
no , no , it can &apos;t .
and if it &apos;s true , then we have to prevent people from getting knowledge of it .
why do we have to prevent people from knowing something if it &apos;s true ?
because without that lifespan , we can &apos;t live .
because we have this self-deception , this sense of being great , descending from the highest creatures , not from such a natural level , of something as unpredictable as an organism that still exists , comparable to a stone and other things , that &apos;s unsustainable to us .
so , we can &apos;t bear these things at all .
one is seadragon , and the other is a very good research on computer vision , which is by noah snavely , a university student at washington university , under the advisation of steve seitz at uv .
we need to prevent people from knowing things , especially when they &apos;re true .
so you can see how slowly this mechanism dissolves , and what the traces that it leaves that lead to something other than this great picture of ourselves , i want to give you another story .
a particularly beautiful story , i mean .
my wife told me .
she came to school one day , she &apos;s a teacher , and she told a student .
an autistic student .
she likes it especially because he has a tendency for sincerity .
and she asked him , what are your hobbies ?
and he says , well , i &apos;m in the fire department .
and because i &apos;m in the fire department , i &apos;m interested in pyrotechnical things .
and rick szeliski was done by microsoft research , a very good collaboration .
yeah , you already feel it when you &apos;re hotter at this point . there &apos;s something wrong .
i told my wife , whenever a human being in a moral judgment uses the word &quot; word because , &quot; we should try to replace it by the word , even though .
do that once , and then you get the sentence .
although i &apos;m at the fire department , i &apos;m interested in pyrotechnical things .
you feel that &apos;s the real truth behind the exit .
this is a little bub that doesn &apos;t care about firemen .
he &apos;s interested in firemaking .
but there are no clubs that we can look around where you learn how to make fire .
there &apos;s only the second best , the fire department .
and he signed up there .
so this is live on the internet . it &apos;s driven by seadragon .
and overwhelmingly , you don &apos;t say to your teacher , you don &apos;t like to put fires somewhere , and you &apos;re happy when the fire comes up afterwards .
no , it just looks a lot better if we show that we &apos;re in charge of eliminating the dangers that others can only do when they &apos;re on fire .
here you have this little mechanism .
this evidence of the fact that the inside of the bub knew that it was actually related to the fire , but it can &apos;t say that loud .
now , a language is not just the totality of the vocabulary or a series of grammar creatures .
here you have this censor between the unconscious and the conscious , who jumps on immediately , without being able to do something about it , and the things that you know look very different , designed to sound much better for you and others .
and so you can just create these words that we use over and over again in the language of the politically correct speech .
in fact , we know that something else is the case .
but we know , when we talk about that , the social relations are very sensitive .
we can &apos;t just do that .
it &apos;s impossible to present these things in a society that &apos;s supposed to work .
you can see that if we create this kind of viewpoint where we can penetrate through images and make this experience of multiple resolution .
so i want to show you what we &apos;ve found in my institute .
after what logic is this deception , this self-deception , the willingness , a different reality than the one that we actually know in the unconscious mind that it &apos;s valid to spread out .
i want to present to you two , maybe three examples of this .
the first example predicts what many of you know , and some of you estimate , very few of you don &apos;t need at all .
i mean the soul .
what is the soul ?
the soul is something like this mental , says something like leibniz .
it &apos;s something that &apos;s not staggering , material nature .
and if you have people who are persuaded to believe that they have a soul , or you can also say , who believe that they &apos;ve been brought from the soul to life , then they think of it as if the soul was such a spiritual framework about them , not from matter , themselves just from meat and blood , something stone , to the earth of bound , delicate , degradable , unimportant , dead .
and now , from this soul , you think that somehow in this cloudy nature , in this funny nature , anima is called in the latin , the lufthtoo .
but the spatial order of the images is actually important here .
and if that air hall then pour over the human being , it &apos;s filled with dignity , with spirit , with nature that can only live , with soul .
and then he can walk away .
this is the idea of how the soul works .
so it &apos;s supposed to come from the outside to the human .
so we &apos;re supposed to think of them as something that &apos;s supposed to be present for our lives .
and if you have this premise in your mind , you understand the logic with which we experience this happiness , through a lie , to improve our world .
because now you can apply a three-sentence .
three sentences you still know from school .
this is now a three-sentence that describes a logic .
this is the hardest part of my talk , by the way .
the computer vision algorithms have put these pictures together so that they can see the real space where these images that were all taken close to the grassi lakes in the canadian rockies , and they &apos;re looking at elements of stabilized slides , or panoramic imaging , and these things are all spatial in relation to each other .
here you need some logic , but you also need the willingness to lie .
that is to lie that you can just use that logic wrong .
in this three-sentence , three sentences come in .
the first sentence is , claim , there &apos;s no soul .
so the second sentence is , if klaus is right , it doesn &apos;t have a soul .
now there &apos;s a third sentence .
i emphasized it in particular .
a third sentence that appears immediately in people who have a strong sense of a soul .
they say , who has no soul , he &apos;s dead , and he can &apos;t say anything .
and that &apos;s where you feel it .
i don &apos;t know if i have time to show you other environments .
this is the logic that comes out in this , yes , in this deceptive talk .
you see it immediately .
the first two sentences , they &apos;re logically correct .
because i can say anything .
the logic doesn &apos;t make a point about reality .
i can say the chancer is a man .
and if i &apos;m right , the chancer is a man .
if i &apos;m not right , the chancer is not a man .
the logic doesn &apos;t make a point about what &apos;s going on .
i can say anything .
there are those who are much more spatial .
but the key thing is , if i &apos;m right , it &apos;s true .
so when klaus says there &apos;s no soul .
second , if he &apos;s right , he doesn &apos;t have a soul .
these things are logically correct .
and now our declining consciousness immediately feels , and you can do something about it .
it depends on a third sentence that has nothing to do with the first two sentences and pretends that the opposite of the first sentence is already proven and presented .
because , in fact , we have to prove whether or not there is the soul .
but with this logic that just uses it , that two sentences are logically correct , and a third one that looks like it has something to do with it , so we can save our livelihood .
so , we pretend that it &apos;s actually impossible without being able to live a soul .
and we &apos;re very happy about that .
i &apos;d like to just show you one of the original data sets of noah , and this is from an early prototype of photosynth that we &apos;ve been working on in summer to show you what i think is really the punchline behind this technology , photosynth-technology , and this is not necessarily so obvious when you look at the environments that we have on the website .
we can continue these things in different examples .
in the present , for example , we have a very modern example that keeps filling the daytime .
now , you have to think of another philosophical issue , a continuous burner from philosophy .
this has to do with going back to the fourth century .
there was a scholar named johannes buridanus , and after that , the buridanan esel was named .
the buridanan esel is an esel made of pure nature .
it doesn &apos;t have that soul .
this is a natural thing .
and if you place the exact same in the middle between two equal hairs , it &apos;s starving .
because he doesn &apos;t know what haystack to go to first .
we had to worry about lawyers and so on .
so it &apos;s right in the middle .
this is how nature is presented .
similarly large forces with opposite currency signs resolve each other .
there &apos;s nothing happening at all .
only if you take another example , so immediately , if you make a haystack bigger , it doesn &apos;t need any reason and nothing .
it automatically runs into the right thought .
so if you have this idea that you &apos;re kind of driven in nature , determined by the larger pile that pulls you , then you also quickly feel that there has to be something like a free will .
and if we &apos;re at the main here in frankfurt , i remember the max planck institute for brain research .
there &apos;s a scholar called wolf singer , and sometimes he says wolf singer , there &apos;s no freedom of will .
now we can make the second sentence again , and we can say , if wolf singer is right , he has no freedom of willingness .
this is a reconstruction of the cathedral notre dame , who was exclusively in the computer with images of flickr . just type in notre dame in flickr , and you &apos;ll get pictures of men in t-shirts and on the universities , and so on . each of these orange kegel represents a picture that was discovered as a model of hearing .
these sentences are absolutely logical and correct .
and what we can now read almost every day in the daily newspaper , that &apos;s what you find in that third sentence .
it looks something like , whoever has no freedom of will , can &apos;t be drawn to responsibility for his actions and claims , and therefore it &apos;s unsustainable .
again , they have it again .
in fact , you &apos;d have to prove whether there &apos;s something like freedom of willingness .
but the logic of deception allows us to pretend that the first sentence in the first place is wrong , as if you had to take on the opposite without proof .
and now you can just , if you want to do anything yourself , if you want to test something yourself , and most of all , if you want to make people happy , practice this courage to lie .
practice this , for example , if you meet a person that you can say , there &apos;s no prediction .
and please don &apos;t use the german word for prediction , which is prophet .
you can &apos;t call that , that would be a little bit of a political incorrection .
so these are all flickr images , and they &apos;re all spatial in this way in relation to each other .
you know , there &apos;s no prediction .
immediately , they become one that , of course , you have these predictors , you can &apos;t prove that .
and they already have a problem .
because while you &apos;re busy trying to figure out that you can &apos;t prove that there &apos;s no prediction , the man is very happy .
he &apos;s very happy about this because he deceived her .
because he led them to a ferry where he doesn &apos;t stop himself .
because actually , this person is not interested in evidence at all .
he &apos;s just interested in keeping himself free before the need to prove that there are predictors .
so , in the kind of shifting of the evidence load , you see the brilliance of the lie .
and once again , if you have a chance to feel that triple in other people , you do , because you will make others happy if you don &apos;t remember them that way .
and we can navigate in this very simple way .
thank you for your attention .
yeah , good afternoon .
and i was allowed to ask lilly if i could mention her .
a language is the expression of the human mind .
she &apos;s one of the organizers here from this great session , and she asked me if i wanted to give a talk here and make my idea prize .
i have to say , honestly , you got it , it was hard for me to talk about my idea at the beginning .
and i might want to introduce my island project that i &apos;m trying to introduce you .
but , of course , it &apos;s the sum of a lot , a lot of ideas .
i &apos;m probably hearing , the two nice girls are still there , and i &apos;m probably one of the generation that &apos;s been fooled for this bad green image , because i &apos;ve already started to study nine-hundred ninety-nine machine construction in karlruh , engineering college , which is now , i think , kit .
and then i was struck by berlin in the mid-80s , because i wanted to make renewables , and i didn &apos;t have that in cardboard .
there was the nuclear research facility called leopoldshafen .
you know , i never believed i was going to work at microsoft .
they were all called the kfa , also the jewish kfa .
they &apos;re now called project carriers .
because a good engineer either built great cars or nuclear power plants .
but sort of doofes like &quot; n solar pendulum , &quot; from which a hundred watts comes out of the square meter , that was a toy .
and in berlin , there was a crazy engineering collection .
i &apos;m grateful to the premium cola that he rehabilitated the word again , because after the masonry , you couldn &apos;t use the word at all , because everything on the left was bad .
but it wasn &apos;t like that in the &apos; 80s .
it was just that there were self-administered alternatives , and one of them was sitting in the intersect mountain in the majority yard , where you suspected the evil .
it was the place of terrorism , but it was called the fuzzy tronics , and it made wind and sunenergy , and i started in the middle of the &apos; 80s .
and yes , a lot of what &apos;s been said today is very touched by me , because many , many beautiful expressions were there that i &apos;ve also lived through .
i &apos;m very grateful for the reception here .
i worked in the collective for 11 years , which was grassroots .
we were 20 people .
if one said no , the vetoprinzip was , it was completely crushed . i &apos;ve been hard for 10 years to doubt whether i &apos;ve actually wasted my great engineering study , maybe to a sweeping thing , because all my colleagues of my father &apos;s friends have always talked to him , you &apos;ve thrown out the money for your child .
it &apos;s about insane .
and that was really , really , really bitter , and then you get into this kind of phase , and that just popped up , where i wondered , after 10 years , a thousand d marrow was still , you know , basic wage , unfortunate in the collective , of course , whether that really should be the great thing .
and then i got up to six and a half thousand , and then we got together with friends , and i became the co-founder of the company solon , who then became one of the largest cell manufacturers in the world with spin-off q-cells .
a huge story of success , but also , of course , again , we have the problem of a growing company , and then we have two thousand , a small group , decided that we start small again and go back and dedicate to the next topic of the future , and that is , i think , and our observation , it &apos;s kind of crazy again , and it starts again with the fact that people say , what &apos;s the hook , that &apos;s all not going to happen , we &apos;re talking about storage .
and i brought you a project that i want to introduce you to now .
and the title of the talk was , yes , how to get to a hundred percent renewable .
and we just started asking a relatively simple crazy story , where could you use a memory of sensory today ?
i guess you can see that these are a lot of different types of cameras : everything from the cell phone camera to professional slrs , a pretty large number of them that have all been swallowed together in this environment .
on this island , this is the island of graciosa on the azores .
yeah , that &apos;s the data .
there are four and a half thousand people living there .
they now have a renewable energy percentage of 15 percent .
and the question is , why don &apos;t they have more ?
it just doesn &apos;t work technologically .
when they &apos;re growing more wind force together , the system starts to fail .
that &apos;s what i always tell the politicians when they &apos;re in berlin adlershard , they &apos;re going to have our facility .
they always say , why ?
we already have 20 percent in germany .
and if possible , i &apos;ll find some of the weird ones .
it can &apos;t be a problem .
but it &apos;s not true , we have seven percent in europe , and our net is physically the european .
if we had 20 percent in europe , we &apos;d already have the same problems that people have on this island .
the question was simple , calculate that was two-thousandth of 2006 , and the first contacts of the island started , just do the math .
how big would it have to be to have a battery to get an island like this on 20 , 30 , 40 , 50 , maybe even seventh percent renewable ?
and yeah , i &apos;ll go back to a slide .
the conventional system looks like this all over the world .
by the way , about a hundred gigawatts of electrical performance is built on the same basis of the world every year .
that &apos;s the power of a hundred nuclear power plants , because it &apos;s very , very quick .
the energy hunger of the world that &apos;s happening is being deleted with this , because you don &apos;t need permission .
many of you are covered by faces and so on .
this is fast .
you put in the box like this .
and then it usually looks like this .
in the process , there are always three of the ones that are going on , two of them are always waiting .
yeah , this is what one of the things that &apos;s down there is the load .
we also got very accurate data .
and the wind power plant , or the solar system , or whatever it is , is usually a back-up system , or a system , which can only eat in small amounts here .
our goal was to say , okay .
the diesel is going to be back-up and the wind , the sun is going to be able to serve the burden so that they can map the larger percentage .
and if you want to go over 20 , 30 percent renewables , so energy per year , not the performance at the moment , you have to turn off the diesel .
there are a series of photographs somewhere -- here they are .
that is , at the moment , you have to make sure that renewables can , in a way , take over the whole web .
of course , you can only do that if you &apos;re manned in some way here .
that &apos;s not what anybody in the world has done .
this is in a small way , so you can also use your shaper in the car over a little bit of a flip judge .
people always ask me , what do you actually do in adlershard ?
this is already going on .
but if you want to assemble multiple of these switches , and you want to build a web , it &apos;s going to be extremely complicated .
and our goal was , we wanted to get to seventh to ninety-nine percent renewable , and then there &apos;s this rest , the last 10 , 20 percent renewable , which is going to be very , very expensive , and it &apos;s not going to work , you know , you &apos;re going to do it from batteries .
that &apos;s certainly going to be an energy carrier , which then , hydrogen , methane , power to gas , you know , that &apos;s what it &apos;s going to be like .
you have to go to a seasonal memory , and winter summer , and not just the night of the day .
this is actually a poster of notre dame who was recorded right .
we just wanted to know , what about a normal , stinky electrochemical battery ?
how far do you get ?
and then we &apos;ve done a lot of simulation .
and we simulated wind and sun and the load , and we came to the conclusion , a very exciting conclusion , that you &apos;re facing the conventional system , which , after 20 years , takes a middle stroke of about 50 cents a kilowatt-hour , about four cents a kilowatt-hour .
these were the very first calculations six years ago .
and then we said , okay .
well , it &apos;s great , we have a business model .
we &apos;re cheaper than the same system when the same price goes up five percent a year .
and then we started negotiating with the insula landers .
what would everything have to be done ?
we can move from the poster to the physical view of this environment .
i &apos;ve negotiated with investors , and i &apos;ve been looking for new social workers .
we were only five people then to rebuild society .
and here &apos;s the picture again .
the brown is kind of the conventional system , the green is our system .
that our system has a price increase , because we &apos;re still doing 20 percent with this , and we &apos;re not going to go through a price increase in the other things .
and the power-utility , which is the power utility company on the island , has meant that we love it .
we also want to support , but we don &apos;t believe that you can solve the technical problem .
and so we decided to build a hall in berlin , where we can sort of map the electric ratios of the island one in three very precisely .
that is , we looked for the first time to find the largest battery in the world .
here it is .
the point here is that we can do things with the social environment . it &apos;s now collected data from everybody -- from the whole collective memory of what , visually , the earth looks like -- and everything is connected .
it comes naturally from asia , in the case of japan .
and the funny thing is , in the &apos; 70s , it was developed at bbc mannheim , now abb , and then it was licensed to the japanese .
you can see , it &apos;s a very , very large battery .
it has a megawatt power , and it can produce this performance for six hours , and that &apos;s the battery that we kind of got out of the simulation technology .
and then they set them up .
we also put one of these same aggregate in the same size that it &apos;s standing there , in the hall , to actually get the full dynamic behavior of this network , so in the hall , it looks like this now , there &apos;s the back here , here &apos;s the big battery , here &apos;s all the centerers that we &apos;re simulating the web with .
over here , we &apos;re simulating the whole transmission system , the miles of the cable physics to sort of map the vibrational behavior on the web .
and here you can see the whole thing again .
we can also turn on the grid two hundred kilowatts of photovoltaics .
here we see this again , again , we see the diesel , again , the whole , single aggregate .
all of these photos are connected , and there &apos;s something bigger than the sum of the parts .
and what we &apos;ve done since two-thousand-nine , the hall has been finished , until now , two-thousand-12 , basically everything that &apos;s been done here between the individual system of electronics , of software , we &apos;ve done .
so we &apos;re not a battery maker , but we define ourselves as a company that &apos;s just between the battery and the topic of the web and everything in between .
you have to , of course , communicate to the battery , you also have to be able to communicate to the web , and that &apos;s very complicated .
the beauty of this island is that you can basically take all of this stuff out today and take it away from problems that we &apos;re going to get if we want to increase our share of renewables .
so this whole discussion , how is it going to go back and forth right now , energy , like walking , on the island , we have , for example , five to 30 percent excess energy , so we &apos;re tiring the wind and the sun .
it &apos;s a means with which the soul of a certain culture is able to access the material world .
natural light then offers smart-grid .
so smart-grid , a big topic everywhere .
we can start to integrate electromobility on the island , to ask around , because you can manage the burden .
that is , if you &apos;re seven percent renewable , you &apos;re not going to be able to do it without memory .
you can go through the n smart-grid , you can build the nets , yes , you should definitely do that , you can hear the percentage , but you &apos;re never going to be able to completely discriminate on storage .
you get a model that comes from all over the earth .
and that &apos;s the take-home message .
that &apos;s why a lot of people come and look at this , because you can see what problems you get .
when we turn off the diesel , you don &apos;t have that rotating mass anymore that causes a certain amount of inertia on the web .
and our european interconnectedness network is basically just made up of loud rotating masses of big power plants , wherever the wave is rotating all over europe .
we look in this web , we see the fifty hertz , and when it becomes ninety-nine comma hertz , we start making some valves , then we go back in a little bit of merh steam , then we get back up again .
this is the system .
and of course , this is incredible amounts .
if you tear it down somewhere , it takes a long time .
the spinning reserve has at least 10 seconds to keep the web stable .
and in time , you can react to other things again .
think of this as the sequel of the work of stephen lawlers on virtual earth .
if you don &apos;t have that anymore , this rotating mass , you have to replace that with performance electronics and electrochemistry .
and we can turn out two milliseconds with this big battery .
that &apos;s where you see the tremendous speed possibilities are there .
and the message is , we need to get to these rotating masses , if we &apos;re going to say , 20 , 20 percent , 20 percent , 20 , 30 , 30 percent , and so on , if we want to get to it at all .
then we have to degrade our must-run capacity on the web .
must-run is simply called the power plant to keep the frequency .
yeah , this is a huge debate right now , building coal power plants , because we don &apos;t have any other , or gastorage , because it &apos;s not going to happen .
and we &apos;re just trying to make it clear that you can degrade the capacity , the must-run capacity , by bringing electrochemical storage to the web .
now , luckily , there are a lot of studies .
and then , for that purpose , people always come and look at our test , sort of , our island test .
and this is something that , through the complexity that people use it , is growing , and whose use for the user is getting bigger and bigger for the user .
and yes , the discussion is always about the question of how far can you take away a little bit of the future ?
and many discussions that i &apos;ve had in the last six years have been similar to the discussion that i &apos;ve had in the last 30 years on photovoltaics .
it &apos;s not , it &apos;s weakness , it &apos;s child toys , we &apos;ve calculated everything , we never calculated .
we now have 30 gigawatts of photovoltaics in germany .
this is preconceivable .
and i just assume that in the next 30 years , we will have the same capacity of electrochemical stores around the world .
it &apos;s very simple , it &apos;s going to come like this .
there &apos;s going to be a lot of resistance and arguments .
the nice thing is that i &apos;ve experienced , in the last two years , that the scientists are putting themselves on my side .
we &apos;ve now got over 10 million funding projects , even to get 10 megawatt-battery to the german web .
and of course , we all share the same adaptation needs .
their own photos are signed with metadata that another person has entered .
this is going to happen in the next april .
so from that , you also realize that there &apos;s a change there , and only from that defense to yes , to the idea that a hundred percent renewable is true .
and if you have a hundred percent renewable , it &apos;s like an autarous system .
so far , in discussions , these insulers , they &apos;re doing autark , they have their own little net , which has nothing to do with our connection .
the question is very simple , if you &apos;re completely independent of any fossil or uranium energy that &apos;s being drilled out somewhere in the world and being brought to you , you &apos;re an island .
then they &apos;re just using what &apos;s on the sun and wind where they live .
and this is a little bit of our vision of a reasonable energy supply , and i &apos;m cradle-to-cradle also grateful that they said , use solar energy .
and that &apos;s what we do , and insofar as we come , also the premium cola talk , that you can be a collective and use solar energy again , a little bit together here .
and yeah , i just want to encourage you , in the sense that you can be quiet a little bit , and you can also have a vision .
and you really have to stay with it , but i think it &apos;s going to happen .
if somebody has been struggling to complain all of these sacred people and communicates who they are , then my photograph of the notre dame-cathedral is suddenly accumulated with all of this data , and i can use it as a starting point to dive into this room , into these metaverse , which uses photos of other people , and therefore make a kind of overwhelming social experience using other providers .
thank you .
when steve lopez , the los angeles times columnist , went through the streets in the center of los angeles , he heard a wonderful music .
she came from a man , an african-american , sympathetic , raw , homeless , who played on a violin that only had two strings .
many of you will know the story , because from steve &apos;s article about it , later , a book that was filmed again was filmed with robert downey junior when steve lopez and jamie foxx was a nathaniel anthony ayers , the contrabassistant who studied at juilliar conservatory and whose promising career was tragically ended early in his paranoid schizophrenia .
nathaniel left juilliard , had a breakdown , and 30 years later , he lived as homeless on the streets of skid row at the center of los angeles .
i recommend all of you to read steve &apos;s book , or to watch the movie , so you can understand not only the wonderful interconnectedness that happened between these two men , but also how the music helped make this connection , and how it was the instrument when this word game is allowed to get the mithalf , nathaniel away from the street .
i met mr ayers in 2008 , two years ago , at walt disney concert hall .
he had just heard a demonstration of beethoven &apos;s first and fourth symphony , and he came back on the stage to imagine myself .
he spoke in a very hotter and social tone about yo-yo ma and hillary clinton and how the dodgers would never make it into the baseball world series , and all of this because of the tangible passage of the first violin in the last sentence of beethoven &apos;s fourth symphony .
we got to talk about music , and a few days later , i got an email saying that nathaniel was interested in the violin education .
and of course , byproduct of all of this is the immense , rich virtual models of every interesting part of the earth that have been preserved not only by exaggerating or satellite images and so on , but by collective memory .
i have to mention that nathaniel rejected a medical treatment , because he had been treated with electric shocks and thorazine and handcuffs , a trauma that followed him all his life .
as a result , he &apos;s now particularly vulnerable to these schizophrenic phases . they &apos;re sometimes so bad , and he disappears for days , walking around the streets of skid row , always exposed to this horror and the torture of his own mind .
and in the same kind of a stage of rice , nathaniel was when we started with our first lesson in the walt disney concert hall , and he had this error flickers in his eyes , and he was completely lost .
he talked about invisible demons and smoke and how someone wanted to poison him in the sleep .
i was scared , not opinionally , but i was afraid that i could lose him , that he could sink into one of his states , and that i could destroy his relationship to the violin when i started talking about audio and arpeggios and other exciting forms of didactic gardens .
so i just started playing .
i played the first sentence of beethoven &apos;s violin concert .
and while i was playing , i noticed that in nathanian &apos;s eyes , a complete change was happening .
it was like he was standing under the influence of an invisible doctor , a chemical reaction , whose catalyst was my game .
nathaniels manic anger turned into understanding , into a quiet curiosity and grace .
thank you .
and like a miracle , he took his violin and started playing some clips of violin concerts after hearing , and then asked me to end them : mendelsson , tschaikovski , sibelius .
we started talking about music , from bach to beethoven , brahms , bruckner and all the other bs , from bartok to esa-pekka salons .
and i realized that , not only did he have an encyclopedic knowledge of music , but he also connected a very close personal relationship with it .
he talked about her with a passion and an understanding that i would only know of my colleagues in the philharmony of los angeles .
by playing music and talking about music , this paranoid , confused man who had just moved through the streets of los angeles , had become a loving , educated , excellent , trained musician in juilliard .
music is medicine . music changes us .
for nathaniel , music means mental health .
because music allows him to reform his thoughts and delusions with his imagination and creativity into something real .
and so he escapes his agonizing conditions .
i understood that this is the nature of art .
you know , do i get it right ? your software enables you , at a certain point , within the next few years , all the images that are used together by someone in the world are basically connected ?
and that &apos;s why we do music : so that we can make something that is in all of us , deep inside , our emotions , through our artistic lens , through our creativity to reality .
and the reality of that expression reaches all of us , and moves , inspired and agreed .
in terms of nathaniel , the music brought him back into a community of friends .
the triggering power of music brought him back into a family of musicians who understood him , who recognized his talent and looked at him .
and i will keep music with nathaniel , whether in the walt disney concert hall or in skid row , because he reminds me why i became a musician .
thank you .
bruno giussani : thank you very much . thank you .
robert gupta .
robert gupta : i want to play something that i &apos;ve stolen the cellist , unfortunately .
i hope you &apos;ll forgive me .
yeah . she doesn &apos;t do anything but discover .
so i knew a lot of fish in my life .
i just loved two .
this first one , this was more like a passionate monkey .
it was a beautiful fish , wealthy , good consistency , rich , rich , best-selling on the menu .
what a fish .
even better , he was raised in aquakulture after the most supposedly high standards of sustainability .
so you could feel comfortable selling it .
i had a relationship with this beauty for several months .
one day , the head of the company called and asked if i could do a show about the sustainability of the farm .
&quot; of course , &quot; i said .
if you want it to create hyperlinks between the images .
here was a company trying to solve what this unthinkable problem was for our chefs . how do we keep fish on our menu ?
in the last 50 years , we &apos;ve fished the ocean as we &apos;ve beaten the forests .
it &apos;s hard to overestimate the destruction .
every language is like an old-fashioned forest of the mind , a turning point , an idea , an ecosystem of spiritual possibilities .
90 percent of the big fish that we love , the tuna , the healing butt , the salmon , the swordfish , they &apos;ve collapsed .
there &apos;s almost nothing left .
so , probably or bad aquakulture , fisheries , will be part of our future .
a lot of arguments against it . fish plants are polluting the environment , most of them anyway , and they &apos;re inefficient , we take tuna . a big disadvantage .
he has a 15-to-one food processing .
that is , 15 pounds of wild fish are required to get a pound of sugar tuna .
not very sustainable .
and it does this because of the content in the images .
it doesn &apos;t taste very good either .
so here was finally a company trying to do it right .
i wanted to support them .
the day before the event , i called the head of public work for the company .
let &apos;s call it don .
&quot; don , &quot; i said , &quot; just to have the facts right , you &apos;re famous for growing so far out in the sea that you don &apos;t pollution the environment . &quot;
&quot; that &apos;s true , &quot; he said . &quot; we are so far out that the waste is distributed by our fish is not concentrated . &quot;
and then he added , &quot; we &apos;re basically a world .
he said this foraging from 2.5 to one , &quot; he said .
&quot; the best in the industry . &quot;
and that &apos;s really exciting when you think of the abundance of semantic information that many of these images have .
2.5 to one , great .
&quot; 2.5 to one what ? what do you feed ? &quot;
&quot; sustainable proteins , &quot; he said .
&quot; great , &quot; i said . i set up .
and that evening , i was in bed thinking , what the hell is a sustainable protein ?
so the next day , just before the event , don .
i said , &quot; don &apos;t , what are sustainable proteins ? &quot;
he said he didn &apos;t know . he &apos;s going to demand .
now , i was talking to a couple of people in the company , and no one could give me a decent answer , until i finally got on the phone with the leading biologist .
let &apos;s call it don too .
like if you take a web search for images where you put in sentences , and the text of the website contains a lot of information about what image that is .
&quot; don , &quot; i said , &quot; for example , what are sustainable proteins ? &quot;
well , he mentioned some algae and some fish meals , and then he said , chicken pellets .
i said , &quot; chicken pellets ? &quot;
he said , &quot; yes , feathers , skin , bone flour , rests , dried and processed to feed . &quot;
i said , &quot; how much percent of your food is chicken ? &quot;
in the presumption of maybe two percent .
&quot; well , that &apos;s about 30 percent , &quot; he said .
i said , &quot; don &apos;t , what &apos;s sustainable to feed chicken to fish ? &quot;
there was a long break in the line , and he said , &quot; there &apos;s just too much chicken in the world . &quot;
i fell in love with this fish .
but what if the picture connects you to all of your images ?
no , not because i &apos;m a self-righteous and good person .
that &apos;s actually me .
no , i actually loved this fish because , you know , i swear to god who swore fish after this conversation , after this conversation , tasted for chicken .
this second fish , this is a different kind of love story .
it &apos;s the romantic way , the way that , the better you get to know your fish , the more you love the fish .
i first ate him in a restaurant in southern spain .
a friend of mine had been talking about this fish for a long time .
it &apos;s kind of wired us up .
he came to the table with a bright , almost shining white color .
the chef cooked it .
then the size of the semantic cross-section and the abundance that comes out of it is really enormous . it &apos;s a classic network effect .
stop twice .
astonishingly , he was still delicious .
who can make a fish taste so good after it &apos;s been cooked ?
i can &apos;t , but this guy can .
let &apos;s call it miguel . it &apos;s actually called miguel .
and no , he didn &apos;t cook the fish , and he &apos;s not a chef , at least in the way that you and i understand it .
he &apos;s a biologist at veta la palma .
this is a fish elevator in the southwestern corner of spain .
it &apos;s near the mouth of guadalquivir .
until the 1980s , the farm was in the hands of argentina .
blaise , that &apos;s really incredible . heart congratulations .
they were growing meat cattle on what was basically wetlands .
they did that by irrigating the land .
they built this complicated consequence of channels , and they pushed water out of the country and out into the river .
well , they couldn &apos;t make it work , not economically .
and it was an ecological disaster .
it killed about 90 percent of the birds , which is a lot of birds for this place .
and so in 1982 , a spanish company with environmental awareness bought the country .
what did they do ?
they &apos;ve reversed the flow of water .
they literally moved the lever .
thank you very much .
instead of pushing the water out , they used the channels to pull the water back in .
they flew the channels .
they created a 11,000 hectares of fish -- bark , seaweed , shrimp , aal -- and his company completely reversed the ecological destruction .
the farm is incredible .
i mean , you &apos;ve never seen anything like this .
they stare out on the horizon , which is a million miles away , and all you see is flood channels and this dense , lush march .
i wasn &apos;t there a long time ago with miguel .
he &apos;s an incredible guy , three parts charles darwin and a part of &quot; a crocodile to kiss . &quot;
okay ? there we were , and we fought through the wetlands , and i &apos;m keuking and sweating , and i have a mud up to my knees , and miguel is still holding a biology lecture .
here he &apos;s highlighting a rare glide .
i &apos;m going to tell you a couple of things from my book that , i hope , are in harmony with other things that you &apos;ve heard before , and i &apos;m going to try to make some connections myself if you haven &apos;t noticed them .
now he mentioned the mineral needs of phytoplankton .
and here , here he sees a pattern of bundles that reminds him of the tanzanian giraffe .
it turns out miguel has spent most of his career in mikumi national park in africa .
i asked him how he became such a fish expert .
he said , &quot; fish ? i don &apos;t know about fish .
i &apos;m an expert in relationships . &quot;
and then it goes and it falls into more talks of rare birds and algae and strange water plants .
and don &apos;t get me wrong , that was really fascinating , you know , the biotic community , unplugged , like that .
it &apos;s great , but i was in love .
and my head became weak about this cooked piece of delicious fish that i had the night before .
i want to start with what i call official dogma .
so i interrupted him . i said , &quot; miguel , how come your fish tastes so good ? &quot;
he pointed at the algae .
&quot; i know boy , the algae , the phytoplankton , the relationships , that &apos;s incredible .
but what do your fish eat ?
what is the food processing ? &quot;
well , he continues to tell me that it &apos;s such a rich system that the fish eat what they would eat in the wild .
the plant biomass , the phytoplankton , the zooplankton , that &apos;s what feeds the fish .
the system is so healthy , it &apos;s completely self-restorative .
there &apos;s no food .
ever heard of a farm that doesn &apos;t feed its animals ?
the official dogma of what ?
later on the day , i was driving around on this site with miguel , and i asked him , i said , &quot; for a place that seems so natural , &quot; unlike any farm i &apos;ve ever been on , &quot; how do you measure success ? &quot;
at the moment , it was like a film director had demanded a change in the film .
and we bend around the corner , and we had the most incredible look , thousands and thousands of pink flamingos , a literally pink carpet that goes as far as the eye goes .
&quot; that &apos;s success , &quot; he said .
and of these 6,000 languages today , as we sit here in monterey , half of them are no longer whispered into the ears of children .
&quot; look at their farms , pink .
they &apos;re bad . &quot;
bad ? i was completely confused .
i said , &quot; miguel , don &apos;t you haul your fish ? &quot;
&quot; yes , &quot; he said .
&quot; we lose 20 percent of our fish and fish eggs to the birds .
the official belief of all western industrialized societies .
well , last year , on this site , 600,000 birds , more than 250 different species .
it &apos;s now become the biggest and one of the most important private avian reserves in all of europe .
i said , &quot; miguel , is a well-thriving bird population not the last thing you want to have on a fish elevator ? &quot;
he shook his head , no .
he said , &quot; we &apos;re building extensively , not intense .
this is an ecological network .
the flamingos eat the shrimp .
the shrimp eats the phytoplankton .
so the pink the belly the better the system . &quot;
okay , let &apos;s rethink that . a farm that doesn &apos;t feed your animals and a farm that measures your success in the health of your predators .
the official dogma works this way : when our goal is to maximize the public good of our citizens , it &apos;s mostly through the maximizing of the freedom of the individual .
a fish elevator , but also a bird reserve .
oh , and by the way , these flamingos should not even be there .
they breed in a city of 240 miles away , where the ground quality is better for nest maintenance .
every morning , they fly 240 miles to the farm .
and every evening , they fly back 240 miles .
they do that because they can follow the strike white line of the highway a92 .
seriously .
i had sort of imagined a journey of penguins , so i looked at miguel .
i said , &quot; miguel , are you going to fly to the farm at 240 miles and then fly it back at night ?
do you do that for the children ? &quot;
the reason for this is that freedom is good in itself , valuable , meaningful , a viable assumption for human beings .
he looked at me like i just quoted a song by whitney houston .
he said , &quot; no . they do it because the food is better . &quot;
i didn &apos;t mention the skin of my beloved fish , which was delicious , and i don &apos;t like fish skin . i don &apos;t like them sucked . i don &apos;t like them crunchy .
it &apos;s this bypassing , coded taste .
i almost never cook with it .
and yet , when i tried it in this restaurant in southern spain , it didn &apos;t smeck in fish skin at all .
she tasted sweet and pure as if you were to take a bite off the ocean .
i mentioned this to miguel , and he was nodding .
he said , &quot; the skin looks like a sponge .
it &apos;s the last defense before something comes into the body .
when people have freedom , each of us for ourselves is about doing the things that our public good maximizes and no one has to decide for us .
it &apos;s evolved over the course of evolution to suck up uncleaners . &quot;
and then he said , &quot; but our water has no intruths . &quot;
okay . a farm that doesn &apos;t feed its fish , a farm that measures its success at the success of its predators .
and then i realized , when he says a farm that has no uncleaners , it underdrives tremendous , because the water that flows through that farm comes in from the river of guadalquivir .
it &apos;s a river that leads all the things that are going on today , that rivers tend to lead them , chemical pollutants , abundance of pest control .
and when it fought through the system , and this leaves the water is cleaner than the water has come in .
the system is so healthy , it cleans the water .
so not only a farm that feeds its animals , not only a farm that measures its success in the health of its predators , but a farm that literally is a water treatment plant , and not just for these fish , but also for you and me .
because when the water flows out , it goes down in the atlantic ocean .
a drop in the ocean , i know , but i take it , and you should do that , because that love story , as romantic as it is , is also inspiring .
the way to maximize freedom is to maximize choice .
you might say that it &apos;s a recipe for the future of good food , whether we &apos;re talking about bark or meat cattle .
what we need now is a radical new concept of agriculture , of one where food actually tastes good .
but for a lot of people , it &apos;s a little bit too radical .
we &apos;re not realists , we &apos;re more enjoyable . we &apos;re lovers .
we love weekly markets . we love small family businesses . we talk about local food . we eat bio .
and if you say that these are the things that will ensure the future of good food , anybody gets up somewhere and says , &quot; hey , i love pinke flamingos , but how are you going to feed the world ?
how will you feed the world ? &quot;
can i be honest ?
i don &apos;t like that question .
no , not because we &apos;re already producing enough calories to feed the world more than just .
the more choices people have , the more freedom they have , and the more freedom they have , the more common they have .
a billion people are going to starve today .
a billion -- that &apos;s more than ever before -- because of crashing inequalities in distribution , not in total production .
well , i don &apos;t like that question because it has been the logic of our food system for the last 50 years .
feeder grain of herbivores , pest control for monocultures , chemicals to the earth , chickens to fish , and all the time , the agribusiness has simply asked , &quot; if we feed more people cheaper , how terrible can that be ? &quot;
that was the movement . it was the justification . it was the business plan of american agriculture .
we should call them what it is , a craftsmanship in wraps , a craftsmanship that quickly ecological capital enabled this production .
this is not a commercial , and it &apos;s not agriculture .
our crop chamber is now threatened , not because of the declining ingredients , but because of the degrading resources .
not by the latest mice and tractor inventions , but by fertile land , not by pumps , but by fresh water , not by chainsaws , but by forests , and not by fishing boats and nets , but by fish in the sea .
you want to feed the world ?
this , i think , is so deeply anchored in our water supply that it would not come to mind .
let &apos;s start with the question : how are we going to feed ourselves ?
or better , how can we create conditions that enable every community to feed itself ?
to do that , don &apos;t look at the agricultural model for the future .
it &apos;s really old , and it &apos;s done .
capital , chemistry and machines are on top of it , and it &apos;s never produced anything really good for food .
instead , let &apos;s look at the ecological model .
that &apos;s what returns to two billion years of working experience .
look at miguel , farmers like miguel .
businesses that are not worlds for themselves , operations that restore instead of using them , businesses that grow extensively , rather than just intense , farmers that are not just generators , but experts for relationships .
because they &apos;re the ones who are experts for flavor .
and it &apos;s also deeply rooted in our lives .
and if i &apos;m really honest , you &apos;re a better chef than i &apos;ll ever be .
you know , that &apos;s right to me , because if that &apos;s the future of good food , it &apos;s going to be delicious .
thank you .
if i want to bring you to one thing today , it &apos;s that the sum of the data that we consume is larger than the sum of your parts , and instead of thinking about information overlap , i want you to think about how we can use information so that patterns are emerging , and we see trends that wouldn &apos;t have been visible otherwise .
so , what we &apos;re seeing here is a typical mortality diagram of age .
the program i &apos;m using here is a little experiment .
it &apos;s called pivot , and what i can do with pivot is i can filter after a certain cause of death , say , accidents .
and immediately , i see another pattern that emerges .
and that &apos;s because in the middle , the people here are the most active , and they &apos;re the most utilitarian over here .
we can go one step further and then rearrange the data and see that circular disease and cancer are the usual suspects , but not for everybody .
i &apos;m going to give you a few examples of what is enabling modern progress .
now , when we go on and sort of go on to age , let &apos;s say 40 years or younger , we see that accidents are actually the main cause that people should be worried about .
and if you look at research , this is particularly true of men .
so you can see that looking at information and data in this way reminds you of swimming in a living information graph .
and if we can do this for raw data , why not for content itself ?
so what we have here are the cover images of every single &quot; sports illustrated &quot; that have ever been printed .
it &apos;s all here . it &apos;s all online .
you can test it after my talk in your rooms .
you can dive into a decade with pivot .
you can dive into a particular year .
you can jump directly to a certain output .
this is my supermarket . not a big one .
now , when i look here , i see the athletes that appear in this copy and the sports species .
i &apos;m a lance armstrong fan , so i &apos;m clicking on this , and i &apos;m going to show you all the spending that lance armstrong talks about .
now , if i just want to get a bigger overview , i could think , &quot; ok , what if i look at all the bike bicycles ? &quot;
so i &apos;m going to step back , and i &apos;m going to give you the perspective .
now i see greg lemond .
and so you get an idea that if you go through this kind of information , target , broader , zoom in , zoom out , you don &apos;t search or surf .
you do something that &apos;s actually a little bit different .
it &apos;s something in between , and we think it changes the way information can be used .
they &apos;re no longer taught young children , which means that if nothing is done , they &apos;re actually dead .
now , i want to take this idea a little further with something like what &apos;s a little crazy .
what we &apos;ve done here is we &apos;ve taken every single wikipediaset and we &apos;ve reduced it to a small summary .
i just want to say a little bit about salatdressing .
the summary contains a quick overview and a symbol of the area that it comes from .
i &apos;m just going to show the top 500 of the most popular wikipedias .
but even in this limited view , we can do a lot of things .
immediately , we get a sense of the topics that are most popular on wikipedia .
now i &apos;m going to pick the issue of government .
now , after i chose government , i realize that the wikipediacategies that are most covering time magazine &quot; people of the year . &quot;
this is really important , because this is a realization that &apos;s not in a single wikipediaset .
that &apos;s just recognizing that if you take a step back and look at the whole thing .
and then , looking at one of these summaries , i can go into the theme of time magazine , &quot; people of the year , &quot; and all see them together .
now , if i look at all these people , i realize that the majority of them are government officials , some of them come from science . some , less , come from the economy . here &apos;s my boss . and one comes from the music area .
there are 175 dressings in my supermarket , if you don &apos;t count the 10 different extra olive oil and 12 balsamicoessig that you could buy to make a large number of your own salad dessings , in the unlikely case that none of the 175 in the store is right for you .
and interestingly , bono is also a ted prize winner .
so now we can jump and look at all the ted prize winners .
you can see , we &apos;re surfing on the web for the first time , as if it &apos;s actually a web , not just from side to side , but much more abstract .
and so i want to show you what else might be a little bit of a surprise .
i &apos;m just going to show you the new york times website here .
pivot , this application -- i don &apos;t want to call it a browser ; it &apos;s really not a browser , but you can look at websites -- and we bring this zoom-technology to every single website like this .
so i can take a step back and jump right to a specific section .
so this is important because you can only look at websites in this way , the whole internet trajectory in the same way .
so i can zoom in on my trajectory in a certain period of time .
here &apos;s the state of the whole demonstration that i &apos;ve been holding to this .
so that &apos;s what the supermarket is like .
and i can sort of bring back everything i &apos;ve looked at today .
and if i step out and look at everything again , i can rearrange my trajectory maybe for my search past , and here , i looked for &apos; nepotistic , &apos; here for bing , or here for live labs .
and from here , i can go into the page and call it up again .
it &apos;s a metaphor that &apos;s used over and over again , and every time the whole picture makes it bigger than the sum of the databases .
right now , in this world , we think data is a curse .
we &apos;re talking about the curse of information overload .
we talk about &quot; drowning in information . &quot;
what if we could turn this situation around and turn the internet upside down , so that instead of going from one to the other , we can start to go from many things to many things , and by doing so , we can see patterns that would have otherwise remained hidden ?
if we can do that , then this data is going to become a new source of sensory information .
and , instead of just moving into information , we can get knowledge from it .
and then they go to the consumer electronics business to put together a stereo system -- speakers , cd players , a cassette player , radio , amplifier . and in this one electronics business , there are so many stereo facilities .
and if we know , then maybe we can even pull wisdom out of it .
i &apos;ll stop with that , thank you very much .
i grew up with a corresponding portion of science fiction .
in my school , i went to school with the bus for an hour every day .
and my nose was always in a book , a science-fiction book that kidnapped my thoughts into other worlds , and in a narrative way satisfied my deep seats , insatiable curiosity .
and this curiosity also showed that whenever i wasn &apos;t in school , i would go through the forests , and i would go around and collect &quot; samples , &quot; frogs and snakes and beetles and dough water , and bring it home and look at it under the microscope .
i was completely enthusiastic , you know .
it was all about trying to understand the world and to explore the limits of the possible .
and my love for science fiction seemed to reflect in my environment , because back in the late &apos; 60s , we flew to the moon and explored the deep sea .
jacques cousteau came into our living rooms with his fascinating shows that showed us animals and places and a world full of miracles that we never could have imagined before .
we can assemble 6.5 million different stereo facilities from the components that are offered in this one business .
and that &apos;s probably very well adapted to the science fiction role .
and i was an artist .
i could draw . i could paint .
and since there was no video games or this overlap with computer-generated movies or the whole media landscape imagery , i had to create the images in my head .
we all had to do that then . when we read a book as children , we took the description of the author and we projected it on the canvas in our heads .
my response to that was to draw and paint aliens , alien worlds , robots , spacecraft and all that kind of thing .
in math class , i was always caught by the teacher , like me , hiding behind the textbook .
the creativity had to be out in some way .
and something interesting happened , because what fascinated me with jacques cousteaus was the idea of a completely unknown world here on our earth .
certainly , i would never reach an alien world with a spaceship , which seemed pretty unlikely to me .
you have to admit that this is a big selection .
but here was a world that i could actually enter , here on earth , and it was as fascinating and as exotic as all of what i had always imagined when i read these books .
so when i was 15 , i decided to be a diver .
the only problem with this was that i lived in a small village in canada , 1,000 miles away from the next ocean .
but i didn &apos;t let that go .
i annoyed my father until he finally found out a dive school in buffalo , new york , right on the other side of the border where we lived .
i made my dive in a pool of ymca in the middle of the winter in buffalo , new york .
but the ocean , a real ocean , i only got to face two years later when we moved to california .
since then , in the 40 years that have been disputed , i &apos;ve spent about 3,000 hours underwater , 500 hours of that in submersibles .
and i &apos;ve learned that the world of the deep sea , even in the shallow oceans , is as rich as we can &apos;t imagine .
nature &apos;s imagination doesn &apos;t know any boundaries , as opposed to our own , miserable human imagination .
in other areas , the world of communication .
until today , i feel the most awe of what i see on my dives .
and my love of the ocean , with the same intensity as ever .
so when i was an adult , when i was a professional , it was a filmmaker .
that seemed the best way to reconcile my inner urge to tell stories with my need to create images .
as a child , i was constantly drawing comic books and so on .
so movies were the way to bring images and stories together . that was the fit .
of course , the stories i chose were from the science fiction area , &quot; terminator , &quot; &quot; aliens , &quot; and &quot; abyss . &quot;
in &quot; abyss , &quot; i was able to connect my preferences for the underwater world and the diving to the filmmaking .
so my two passions sort of intertwined .
something interesting happened at abyss : to solve a narrative problem in this film -- and that is , we had to create a kind of liquid water creature -- we took it back to computer-generated animation , cg .
there was a time when i was a boy , you could have every telephone you wanted , as long as he came from ma bell .
what came out of this was the first computer-generated software surfing figure ever seen in a movie .
now , the movie didn &apos;t bring money , he was actually playing his cost of production , but i noticed something fascinating : the audience around the world was like hypnotized by the magic that went out of it .
according to arthur clarke &apos;s law , you know , are advanced technology and magic no longer different from each other .
so they saw something magical .
and i found that incredibly exciting .
and i thought to myself , &quot; wow , this has to be involved in film art . &quot;
so we went to &quot; terminator 2 , &quot; my next movie , much further .
together with ilm , we created the guy from liquid metal there , and the success depended on how this effect would get there .
and it worked . again , we had created something magical , and the effect in the audience was the same , but we &apos;ve played a little bit more money with the movie .
from both of these experiences , a whole new world was reached , a whole new world of creativity for film creators .
you rented your phone . you didn &apos;t buy it .
so i started a company , along with my good friend stan winston , who was the best makeup and creature-designer at the time , called digital domain .
the basic idea of this company was to skip over the phase of analogous processes with optical printers and so on and start with digital production .
and then we did that , and we created a competitive advantage for a while .
but in the mid- &apos; 90s , we realized that we were in creature- and seminal design -- which we had actually started the company -- we were getting too slow .
i had written this piece , &quot; avatar , &quot; which was the measurement of visual effects and computer-generated effects in new heights , with realistic human expressive characters made using cg , and the main characters should all be cg . and the world should be cg .
but the measurement bar was pretty much back , and the people in my company told me that we &apos;re not going to be able to do that yet .
so i shifted that and made this other movie about the big ship that goes down .
i sold this to the movie studio as &quot; romeo and julia on a ship . &quot; it became a love movie of epic extent , a passionate movie .
but secretly , i wanted to go down to the real wreck of the titanic .
that &apos;s why i made the movie .
and a consequence of that was that the phone was never broken .
that &apos;s the truth . the studio didn &apos;t know that .
but i convinced them by saying , &quot; we &apos;re going to dive to the wreck . we &apos;re going to film the real wreck .
we &apos;re going to show it in the opening sequence of the movie .
that &apos;s incredibly important . it &apos;s a good tag for marketing . &quot;
and i talked to them to fund an expedition .
what could be more lonely than being surrounded by the silence , being one of the last of your people who speaks your language , not having a chance to pass on the wisdom of the ancestors , or to expect the hope of children ?
sounds crazy . but again , this is about the fact that your imagination can create a reality .
we actually created a reality six months later , where i found myself in a russian submersible , four kilometers under the surface of the north atlantic , and looked at the real titanic through a bulleye .
that wasn &apos;t a movie , no hd , that was real .
so , that really blew my mind .
and the preparation for that was enormous . we had to build cameras and headlights and all sorts of things .
these days are over .
and i noticed how much this deep-sea diving , a space mission was .
well , they were also high-tech and enabled extensive planning .
you get into this capsule , you float down into this dark , hostile environment , where there &apos;s no hope for rescue , if you don &apos;t get it back .
and i thought , &quot; wow , that &apos;s as if i was in a science fiction movie .
that &apos;s really cool . &quot;
i was really obsessed with exploring the deep sea .
anyway , the part that had to do with curiosity and science , it was all . it was adventure , it was curiosity . it was imagination .
and it was an experience that hollywood couldn &apos;t give me .
because , you know , i could imagine a creature for which we could then design a visual effect , but i couldn &apos;t imagine what i was going to see outside the window .
in some of the following expeditions , i &apos;ve seen creatures in thermal sources , and sometimes things that i &apos;ve never seen before , sometimes things that no one has ever seen before , and the science at the time when we saw them , had not found words .
we now have almost an infinite selection of telephones , especially in the world of mobile phones .
so that really resonated with me , and i wanted more .
and so i made a little bit of an unusual decision .
after the success of titanic , i said , &quot; okay , i want to put my main job as a filmmaker in hollywood , and i &apos;m going to be a full-time researcher for a while . &quot;
and then we started diving into the bismarck , and we explored it with robotic experiences .
we went back to the titanic wreck .
we took little robots that we built that wrapped a fiber glass cable .
our intention was to dive in and look at the inside of the ship , which had never been done before .
no one had ever explored the inside of the wreck . you didn &apos;t have the means for it . so we developed the technology that was necessary .
now , i &apos;m sitting on the deck of the titanic , in a submersible , and i see planks that look very similar to this board here , and i know that the band once played there .
and i &apos;m flying with a little robotic experience through the gears of the ship .
these are the mobile phones of the future .
now , i &apos;m just serving it , but my consciousness is within the vehicle .
it felt like i was physically in the shipping wreck of the titanic .
this was the most surreal form of a déjna vu that i &apos;ve ever experienced , because before i bow around a corner , i &apos;ve always known what was going to appear in the light bullet of the vehicle , because i &apos;d run through the movie set for months when we made the film .
because the set was an accurate copy of the ship &apos;s blueprints .
so this was a very strange experience .
she made me realize this telepresence experience that you can use such robotic avatars and put your consciousness in the vehicle , in this other form of existence .
it was really , really profound .
and maybe a little bit of a glimpse of what might happen in a few decades , if you have cyborg bodies to explore something or do other things , in all sorts of post-humanities that i can think of as a science-fiction fan .
so after these expeditions , we started to really appreciate what we saw down there , for example , these deep sea sources , where we saw these incredibly amazing animals , and these are sort of aliens , but here on earth .
they live with chemosynthesis .
my favorite is the one in the middle -- mp3 playful , nasal hair-trimmer and crème brée fackel .
they don &apos;t exist in a sunlight system , like we do .
and so you see animals that are right next to a 500 degree centigrade , that they can survive there .
at the same time , i was also very interested in space science , again , science fiction influence from my childhood .
and so i ended up with the people who are interested in space and who have to do with nasa and sit in nasa &apos;s expertise advice and plan real space missions , and they go to russia , before the mission , they go through the biomedical protocol , and then they fly to the international space station , and they take our 3d camera systems .
that was fascinating .
but at the end of the day , it turned out that i took space scientists into the deep sea .
i took them , and i got them access to the world down there : astrobiologists , planetary scientists , people who were interested in these extreme situations , and i took them to the sources so they could look around , sample and test instruments and so on .
now , we did documentary films , but we actually did science , in particular : space science .
so the circle between my existence as a science-fiction fan , then as a child , and the implementation into reality .
in the course of this journey of discovery , i &apos;ve learned a lot .
and if you haven &apos;t seen this yet in your business , you can be sure you &apos;re going to be soon .
i &apos;ve learned a lot about science , but i &apos;m sure you &apos;re going to think a director has to be able to lead , a leader like a ship captain or something .
but i didn &apos;t understand much about leadership before i joined these expeditions .
because at some point , i had to say , &quot; what am i doing here ?
why do i do that ? what &apos;s going to happen ? &quot;
these stupid films don &apos;t bring us any money .
we &apos;re just going to play the cost of production . no trace .
everybody thinks i was between titanic and avatar going away and celebrating my nails on a towel on a beach somewhere .
i made all these films , these documentary films , for a very small audience .
no fame , no honor , no money . what are you doing ?
you &apos;re doing it for the sake of the challenge -- and the ocean is the most challenging environment that we have . you &apos;re doing it for the discovery of the way , and because of the weird connection that comes when a small group of people form a team .
and what it does is it makes people walk into business and ask that question .
because we &apos;ve done all of this with only 10 to 12 people who have been working uninterrupted for years , and sometimes we &apos;ve been to sea for two to three months in a row .
and in this community , you realize that the most important thing is the contempt that you have in front of each other , because you &apos;ve done a task that you can &apos;t explain to any other .
when you go back to land and you say , &quot; we had to do it , the fiberglass , the weakness , and all the way around , all the technology , and the difficulty , the human performance , if you &apos;re working on lake , &quot; you just can &apos;t explain the other one , and that &apos;s like police officers , or soldiers who have done something together , and know that they can never explain it to anybody .
there &apos;s a connection , a mutual respect .
so when i came back to make my next movie &quot; avatar , &quot; i tried to use the same leadership style , which was that you respect your team and you deserve respect in the opposite direction of that .
this really changed the dynamics .
so again , i stood there with a small team on unknown terrain , and we turned &quot; avatar &quot; with a new technology that didn &apos;t exist before .
extremely exciting .
an enormous challenge .
and we became a right family for a four-and-a-half year period .
now , you know what the answer to this question is ?
so my way of making films changed completely .
there were people who thought we &apos;d really been doing a really good job of transporting these ocean creatures to the planet pandora .
for me , it was more of a fundamental way of doing my job , the actual process that changed as a result .
so what can we conclude from all this ?
what are the lessons that we learned ?
i think the first place is curiosity .
it &apos;s the most powerful human property .
our imagination is a force that can even create a reality .
and the contempt of your team is more important than any lorbeer in the world .
and i have young filmmakers who say , &quot; give me a advice about how i can do this . &quot;
the answer is no .
and i say , &quot; don &apos;t restrict yourself .
that &apos;s what others get for you . don &apos;t do it to yourself , don &apos;t bet on yourself . but take risks on you . &quot;
nasa has such a favorite sentence : &quot; failure is not an alternative . &quot;
but in art and in exploration , failure has to be an alternative , because it guarantees a trust .
no important endeavor that demanded innovation was ever done without risk .
you have to be willing to take risks like this .
that &apos;s the idea i &apos;d like to leave you with . failure is an alternative , but fear is not . thank you .
today i &apos;m talking to you about energy and climate .
and this may be surprising , because my full-time job at the foundation is mostly about vaccines and seeds , about the things that we need to invent and deliver in order to allow the poorest two billion to live a better life .
but energy and climate are extremely important for these people , in fact , more important than anyone on the planet .
it &apos;s not possible to buy a mobile phone that doesn &apos;t do too much .
climate degradation means that the seeds are not going to grow over many years , and we &apos;re going to rain too much or too little . things are going to change in the way that their fragile environment cannot sustain .
this leads to starvation . it leads to uncertainty . it leads to riots .
so , a climate change will become terrible for you .
and also , the energy cycle is very important for them .
in fact , if you could only reduce the price of one thing , to reduce poverty , energy would be far from the most effective .
well , the energy cycle has fallen over time .
in fact , the progress society is based on energy advances .
coal evolution pushed the industrial revolution , and even in the 20th century , there was a rapid case in electricity cycle , and that &apos;s why we have refrigerators , air conditioners , we can make modern materials and do so many things .
so we &apos;re in a wonderful situation with electricity in the rich world .
but if we reduce the price -- let &apos;s cut the price in half -- we hit a new barrier , and that barrier is related to co2 .
in other aspects of life , which are much more significant than buying objects , the same explosion of choice is true .
co2 heats the planet , and the equation for co2 is actually quite clear .
they &apos;re summarizing the exhausted co2 , which leads to temperature increases , and that increase in temperature has some very negative implications . effects on weather , and perhaps worse , the indirect consequence that natural ecosystems can &apos;t adapt such rapid changes , and therefore whole systems collapse .
now , the exact correlation between a co2 increase and the resulting temperature change , and where it &apos;s going , there are some ambiguity , but not very many .
and there &apos;s certainly ambiguity about how bad these consequences are going to be , but they &apos;re going to be extremely bad !
i asked the top scientists several times , &quot; do we really have to get down close to zero ?
and yet , this terrible destiny actually happens to someone anywhere on earth , about every two weeks , because every two weeks , an elderly person dies and takes the last silver of an old language .
isn &apos;t half the way or a quarter ? &quot;
the answer is , until we get close to zero , the temperature will go up .
so it &apos;s a big challenge .
it &apos;s very different from saying we have a 3,000-foot truck , which has to be under a three-foot bridge , and then you can kind of squeeze it underneath .
this has to go down , to zero .
health care -- it &apos;s no longer the case in the united states that you go to the doctor and the doctor tells you what to do .
well , we &apos;re emitting a lot of carbon dioxide every year , over 26 billion tons .
every american , about 20 tons . people from poor countries , less than one .
on average , it &apos;s about five tons for everyone on the planet .
and somehow we have to create changes that are going to go down to zero .
it &apos;s been up all the time .
only different economic changes have it influenced at all , and we have to go from rapidly to reducing , and to reducing , to zero .
this equation has four factors . a little bit of multiplication . you have this thing on the left -- co2 -- that you want to get to zero , and that &apos;s going to depend on the number of people , on the services that every human being uses on average , the average energy for every service and the co2 that &apos;s emitted per unit of energy .
so let &apos;s look at each factor and think about how we get this to zero .
probably one of these numbers has to get very close to zero .
now this is basic algebra , but let &apos;s go through it .
instead , they go to the doctor , and the doctor tells them , we could do a , or we could do b .
first , we have the population .
today , 6.8 billion people live .
and it goes to nine billion . moving to nine billion .
if we &apos;re very successful with new vaccines , health care and reproduction medicine , we might be able to reduce that by 10 to 15 percent , but right now we see a slope by 1.3 .
the second factor is the services that we use .
that includes everything , the food that we eat , clothing , television , heat .
these are very good things , and poverty reduction means making these services available to almost everybody on the planet .
it &apos;s great that this number is going up .
in the rich world , in the upper billion , we might be able to make arguments and use less , but on average , that number is going to go up every year and therefore more than double , the number of services per person is going to be provided .
here we see a very fundamental service . is there light at home so that you can read the homework ?
a has these benefits and risks .
and these students don &apos;t have it , so they go out and they read their school tasks under the street light .
well , in efficiency , the e , the energy per service , there &apos;s finally good news .
we have something that doesn &apos;t go up .
because of different successes in the light sector , through other types of autotypes , through new methods in the building , there are many services where some of the services are reduced by 90 percent .
in other services , like making fertilizers , 105 : 05 : 56,000 -- &amp; lt ; em &amp; gt ; 00 : 05 : 58,000 or air traffic or air traffic , the playground for improvement is much smaller .
in total , if we &apos;re optimistic , we might get a factor three reduction , maybe even by a factor of six .
but in the first three factors , we &apos;ve now gone from 26 billion to maybe the very best 13 billion tons , and that &apos;s just not enough .
so let &apos;s look at the fourth factor -- and this is going to be a key factor -- that &apos;s the amount of co2 that &apos;s emitted per unit of energy .
it &apos;s a question of whether you can get that to zero .
if you burn coal , no .
b has these benefits and risks . what do you want to do ?
if you burn natural gas , no .
almost every way of making electricity today is emitting co2 , except for renewables and nuclear energy .
so , what we need to do at a global level is to create a new system .
we need energy miracles .
now , when i use the term &quot; miracle , &quot; i don &apos;t mean the impossible .
the microprocessor is a miracle . the pc is a miracle .
the internet and the service is a miracle .
people here have contributed to the development of many of these miracles .
usually , there &apos;s no deadline that you need a miracle to a certain date .
you &apos;re usually just wrong , and some people come , some don &apos;t .
and they say , &quot; doctor , what should i do ? &quot;
but in this case , we have to give full gas and get a miracle in a very short time .
well , i wondered , how can i really get this over ?
is there a natural illustration , a demonstration that sparks the notion of people here ?
i remembered last year when i brought mosquitos and somehow people liked it .
the idea became really tangible to you , you know , there are people who live with mosquitos .
i came up with this for energy .
i decided that the fireflies release my year &apos;s contribution to the environment would be here .
so here are some natural fireflies .
i was assured that they &apos;re not going to bite . in fact , they &apos;re not even going to leave the glass .
well , there are all kinds of gadgets like this , but they don &apos;t do much .
the doctor says a has these benefits and risks , and b has these benefits and risks .
we need solutions , either one or two , that have an incredible scaling and unimaginable reliability , and even though there are many directions in which people are looking for it , i really see only five that can afford these big demands .
i left out tides , geothermal , fusion and biofuels .
they may be doing a modern contribution , and if they do better than i expect , that would be great , but my core statement here is that we have to work on all those five , and we can &apos;t give up any of them because they &apos;re intimidating us , because they all have significant problems .
let &apos;s first look at burning fossil fuels , burning coal or natural gas .
what you &apos;ve got to do there may seem simple , but it &apos;s not easy . you &apos;ve got to capture all the co2 that comes out of the chimneys after you burn the chimneys , and then you &apos;ve got to lose pressure , and then you &apos;ve got to warehouse somewhere , and hope it stays there .
there are some pilot projects that can do it at 60 percent -- 80 percent level , but get it to 100 percent , and get it very difficult to get an agreement on the co2 storage is a big challenge . but the biggest problem here is the storage question .
who &apos;s going to make it safe ?
who can guarantee something that literally billions of times larger than any kind of garbage you can imagine of nuclear and other things ?
that &apos;s a lot of volume .
so this is a hard nut .
what do you want to do ?
next , nuclear energy .
it also has three big problems . the cost , especially in highly regulated countries , is high , and the question for security is that you really feel that nothing can go wrong , despite human cooperation , that the fuel is not used for weapons .
and then what do you do with the garbage ?
because even though it &apos;s not very big , there &apos;s a lot of concerns .
so three very difficult problems that might be solved , and that &apos;s why you should work on them .
i &apos;ve summarized the last three of the five .
it &apos;s renewables , as they &apos;re often called .
and they also have -- although it &apos;s great that they don &apos;t need any fuel -- they have some disadvantages .
one is the energy density that these technologies are generating dramatically lower than the power plants .
these are energy farms , they &apos;re talking about many square kilometers , thousands of times more land than a normal power station .
and if you said , &quot; if you were me , doctor , what would you do ? &quot;
and also , these sources are interruptions .
the sun doesn &apos;t shine all day , it doesn &apos;t seem every day , and it doesn &apos;t always seem to hurt the wind .
that &apos;s why , if you &apos;re dependent on these sources , you have to have a way to get the energy if it &apos;s not available in time .
so there are big price challenges here . there are challenges in transmission . if we say , for example , the energy source is outside the country , you don &apos;t just need the technology , you also need to deal with the risk of the energy coming from where else is .
and there &apos;s the storage problem .
and to show you the dimension , i looked at all sorts of batteries that are made : the ones that are for cars , computers , cell phones , cell phones , flashlights , for everything , and that &apos;s what i &apos;ve got with the amount of electronic energy that the world is using , compared to all kinds of batteries that we &apos;re producing now , less than 10 minutes of total energy .
so we need a big breakthrough here , something that &apos;s going to be a factor of 100 better than the approaches at the moment .
it &apos;s not impossible , but it &apos;s not that easy .
this is what happens when you try to get these interrupted sources over , say , 20 percent -- 30 percent of the consumption .
if you want to support it by 100 percent , you need an incredible miracle battery .
the doctor says , &quot; but i &apos;m not her . &quot;
now , where should we go : what &apos;s the right approach ?
a manhattan project ? how do we get to the goal ?
what we need is a lot of companies working on this . hundreds .
in each of these five areas , we need at least 100 people .
in many people , they &apos;re going to say , they &apos;re crazy ! that &apos;s good .
i think there are a lot of people here in the ted group who are already engaged in this .
bill gross has several companies , including one called esolar , which has great solar thermal technologies .
vinod khosla is investing in dozens of companies that do great things and have interesting opportunities , and i &apos;m trying to support that .
nathan myhrvold and i are funding a company that , perhaps surprisingly , tracks the nuclear approach .
there are some innovations in the nuclear sector ; modular , liquid .
the result is -- we call it patient autonomy . it sounds like a good thing , but in reality , a shift in the burden of responsibility for making decisions from someone who knows something -- namely the doctor -- to someone who &apos;s not white and most likely ill , and therefore not in the best constitution is to make a decision -- namely the patient .
the development stopped in this industry a while ago , so it &apos;s not a big surprise that some good concepts are lying around .
the terrapower-concept means that instead of a part of the uranium , the one percent , the u235 , we decided to burn the 99 percent , the u238 .
that &apos;s a pretty crazy idea .
but in fact , you &apos;d been thinking about it for a long time , but you could never simulate whether it would work , but since there &apos;s modern supercomputers , you can simulate it and see that , yes ! with the right material approach , it looks like it works .
and i know some of you say , &quot; isn &apos;t it better ? &quot; the world wouldn &apos;t be a better place if we all talked only one language ? &quot; and i say , &quot; well , let this language be yoruba . let it be canadian .
and because you burn that 99 percent , the cost profile is much better .
in fact , you burn the garbage , and you can even use the waste of today &apos;s reactors as a fuel .
instead of breaking your head over it , you just burn it . it &apos;s a great thing .
the uranium is gradually used , a little bit like a candle .
you can see that it &apos;s a kind of pillar , often called a &quot; wandering wave reactor . &quot;
it really solves the fuel problem .
there &apos;s an enormous marketing marketing for prescription drugs for people like you and me , which , if you think about it , doesn &apos;t make sense at all , because we don &apos;t buy it .
here &apos;s a picture of a place in kentucky .
this is the waste , the 99 percent . you &apos;ve got the part that &apos;s being burned today , so it &apos;s called the uranium used .
this is what the u.s. is doing for hundreds of years .
and if you filtrate ocean water inexpensive and simple , you get enough fuel for the rest of the life on the planet .
you know , there are many challenges , but it &apos;s an example of many hundreds of concepts that we need to get forward .
let &apos;s think about how we should measure our success .
what should our testimony look like ?
now , let &apos;s go to the goal that we have to reach , and then we talk about the intermediate step .
a lot of people talk about an 80 percent reduction by 2050 .
it &apos;s really , really important that we get there .
why are they advertising for us if we can &apos;t buy ?
the rest of 20 percent will be produced in poor countries , and still some agriculture , and hopefully whale threats and cement will be clean until then .
so , in order to reach that 80 percent , the developed world , including countries like china , has to completely reframe their electricity generation .
the other note is whether we use the zero-emission technology , whether it &apos;s used in all developed countries , and we &apos;re on the way to get it to the rest .
that &apos;s really important .
this is going to be a key element of this stuff .
if we go back from there , what should that look like in 2020 ?
it should have the two elements again .
we should use the effectiveness efforts to bring reduction down , and the less we emitt , the less carbon dioxide is going to be , and therefore the temperature is going to be low .
but in fact , this note for the things that we do that don &apos;t completely lead to the big reductions , just the same , or even a little bit less important as the other ones that represent the speed of innovation for this breakthrough .
we have to track these breakthroughs with full gas , and we can measure this : in corporate numbers , in pilot projects and in regulation changes .
the answer is , you expect us to call the doctor the next morning and ask for a change in prescription .
there are a lot of great books about this topic .
the al gore book , &quot; we have the choice &quot; and david mckays &apos;s &quot; sustainable energy without the hot air . &quot;
they really go through it , and they create a framework where this can be discussed , because we need support from all sides .
there are some things that need to come together .
that &apos;s a wish .
a very concrete wish that we invent this technology .
if you just give me a wish for the next 50 years , i could choose the president , a vaccine , and i love that wish , or i could choose that wish , which is , half-embodied energy episode , i would take that wish .
this one has the biggest impact .
if we don &apos;t get that wish , the digging between the long term and the short-term thinking people will be terrible , between the united states and china , between the poor and the rich , and almost all of the lives of these two billion lives will be much worse .
so what do we have to do ?
something as profound as our identity is now a question of how to show this slide .
what are i appealing to ?
we need to go for more research funds .
when countries get together in places like coppenhagen , they shouldn &apos;t just talk about co2 .
you should discuss this innovation strategy , and you would be shocked by the ridiculously small money spent on these innovative approaches .
we need market tanks , co2 taxes , cap &amp; amp ; trade something that creates a price signal .
we need to spread the message .
we need to have dialogue more rational and more complete , and also the things that are done by government .
it &apos;s an important wish , but i think we can fulfill it .
thank you .
thank you .
we don &apos;t inherit identity , we invent it .
thank you . thank you .
thank you very much . just to understand terrapower a little bit better -- first of all , can you give us an idea of the scale of this investment ?
bill gates : to do the simulation on a supercomputer , to get all the great scientists that we &apos;ve done , we just need a few 10 million . and even if we &apos;ve tested our materials in a russian reactor to make sure it works reasonably , you &apos;re only in the 100 million .
the hard step is to build the first reactor , to find more billions , the regularians and the place that actually builds the first one .
once the first one is done , when it &apos;s done , it &apos;s all clear , because the economics , the energy density , is so different from nuclear power as we know it .
so , to understand that , this means building deep in the ground , almost like a vertical column of nuclear fuel , this used uranium , and then the process starts up and down ?
bg : right . now , you have to always refill the reactor , so there &apos;s a lot of people and a lot of controls that can go wrong . this thing where you open it up and bring things in -- or out . that &apos;s not good !
but if you have very cheap fuel , you can fill it for 60 years -- think of it as a column -- that you buried without all the complexity .
and it &apos;s sitting there burning for 60 years , and then it &apos;s done .
a nuclear reactor that even offers a solution to the waste .
and we &apos;re reinventing ourselves as often as we want .
bg : yeah . well , what happens to the garbage : you can let it sit -- there &apos;s a lot less garbage with this method -- you take it and you put it in the next reactor and you burn it .
and we start by taking the waste that already exists , which is in these refrigerators or dry vessels in the reactors , which is our starting fuel .
so what was a problem for these reactors is what we fill in our fills , and so the waste volume is dramatically reduced during this process .
but as you &apos;ve talked to different people in the world about these possibilities .
where is the biggest interest in really doing this ?
bg : well , we haven &apos;t set out a place yet , and there &apos;s a lot of interesting openness rules for everything that &apos;s called the &quot; nuclear &quot; -- there &apos;s a lot of interest , and the people of the company were in russia , india , china -- i &apos;ve been here , and i &apos;ve met the minister of energy , and i &apos;ve talked about how this fits to the energy agenda .
i &apos;m optimistic . you know , the french and the japanese did something in the direction .
this is a version of a thing that was made .
this is an important step forward , but it &apos;s like a faster reactor , and some countries have built it , so anyone who has implemented a fast reactor is a candidate for our first .
in your mind , time frame and probability really create something like this ?
that means every day , when you wake up in the morning , you have to decide what kind of person you want to be .
bg : well , we need one of these scalable , electricity generating things that are very cheap , we have 20 years to invent and then 20 years to use .
this is kind of the deadline that has shown us the environmental models that we need to hold .
and , you know , terrapower , if everything goes well , and that &apos;s a big wish , it could be easy .
and luckily , there are dozens of companies today , and we need hundreds that , in the same way , if their approaches work , can provide the funding for their pilots .
and it would be best if you could do it several , because then you could use a mixture .
anyway , we need a solution .
in terms of the great breakthroughs , is this the biggest thing you know ?
bg : an energy breakthrough is the most important thing .
it would have been without the environmental demand , but it makes it much more important .
in the nuclear sector , there are other innovative companies .
in terms of marriage and family , there was a time when the standard assumption was that almost everybody had one and that they got married as fast as they could , and then they got children as quickly as they could .
you know , we don &apos;t know their work as well as this , but there &apos;s the modular method , which is a different approach .
there &apos;s a liquid reactor guy that seems a little bit difficult , but maybe they say that about us .
and so there are different , but the nice thing about this is that a uranium molecule has a million times as much energy as a , say , a coal molecule , and so if you can deal with the problems , and they &apos;re mostly the radiation , the footprint and the cost , it &apos;s the potential , so the impact on the land and other things , almost in your own league .
if that doesn &apos;t work , what ?
do we need to introduce emergency measures to try to keep the earth &apos;s temperature stable ?
bg : when you get into this situation , it &apos;s like you &apos;ve eaten too much , and you &apos;re about to have a heart attack . what do you do ? you might need a heart surgery or something .
there &apos;s a research line called geoengineering , which is about different techniques to delay global warming , so that we could get 20 or 30 years longer to get together .
this is just an insurance method .
you hope we don &apos;t need that .
some people say you shouldn &apos;t work on insurance , because it might make you lazy , so you keep eating , because you know you &apos;re going to save your heart surgery .
the only real choice was who , not when , and not what they did after that .
i don &apos;t know if that &apos;s smart , if you think about the importance of this problem , but there &apos;s now a discourse in geoengineering about whether you should have that , if things come faster , or that innovation takes longer than we expect .
climate change scientists : do you have one or two sentences for those to maybe convince you ?
bg : well , unfortunately , the skeptics live in very different camps .
those who make scientific arguments are very little .
do you say that there are negative effects that have to do with the clouds that are changing things ?
there are very , very few things that you can even say , of which there is a chance in a million .
the main problem here is similar to aids .
you make the mistake now , and you pay for it a lot later .
and so the idea is , now , if you have all sorts of urgent problems to invest in something that you only have later -- and to get the investment not so clear . in fact , the ipcc report is not necessarily the worst scenario , and there are people in the rich world who are looking at ipcc and saying , okay , that &apos;s not a big drama .
the fact is that this uncertainty should make us worried .
today , everything is easy to have .
but my dream here is that if you can make it economic , and at the same time , you can eliminate the co2 , then the skeptics say , &quot; okay , i &apos;m not interested in that it doesn &apos;t emitt co2 , i almost wish it would do it , but i &apos;m going to accept it because it &apos;s cheaper than the previous method . &quot;
and that would be your answer to the bjorn lomborg argument that if you use all this time and energy to solve the co2 problem , all the other goals suffer , the poverty reduction , the control of malaria and so on , there is a stupid waste of resources to invest in money , while there are better things that we can do .
bg : well , the actual spending on research -- say the u.s. should spend 10 billion a year more than you do today -- that &apos;s not so dramatic .
there should be other things that shouldn &apos;t suffer .
you get too much money , and here you can disagree with reasonable people if you have something that &apos;s not economic , and you try to finance that , and for me , most of the waste is happening .
unless you &apos;re very close to a cost breakthrough , and you &apos;re just funding the learning curve , i think we should try more things that have the potential to be much cheaper .
if the distrust that you get is a very high energy cycle , then only the rich can keep up .
i mean , every one of us here could spend five times as much on our energy without changing its lifestyle .
but for the bottom two billion , it &apos;s a disaster .
and even lomborg thinks about it .
i teach wonderful intelligent students , and i give them 20 percent less work than i used to do .
his new pocket is now , &quot; why is research not going to be discussed anymore ? &quot;
he &apos;s still , because of his earlier stories , associated with the skeptic camp , but he &apos;s understood that this is a very lonely group , and that &apos;s why he &apos;s now making the research argument .
let &apos;s be , you know . &quot;
and this is a thought process that i think is appropriate .
the research , it &apos;s just crazy how little that &apos;s being supported .
bill , i think i &apos;m speaking for almost all the people here , when i say , i really hope that your wish will be true . thank you very much .
bg : thank you .
a few years ago , here at ted , peter skillman introduced a design competition called &quot; the marshmallow challenge . &quot;
the idea is pretty simple . four-foot teams have to build the largest free-standing structure with 20 spaghetti , about a meter tape , about a meter of tape , and build a marshmallow .
the marshmallow has to be on top of it .
and , although it seems really simple , it &apos;s actually really hard , because it urges people to work very quickly .
and it &apos;s not because they &apos;re less smart , not because they &apos;re less careful .
and so i thought this was an interesting idea , and i turned it into a design workshop .
it was a huge success .
since then , i &apos;ve done about 70 workshops around the world , with students , developers and architects , even ctos of fortune 50-company , and there &apos;s something about this task , which enables deep insights into the nature of collaboration , and i want to share some of them with you .
usually , most people start to orient themselves to the task .
you &apos;re talking about it , you &apos;re thinking about what it &apos;s going to look like , you &apos;re running around power .
then they invest a little bit of time in planning and organization , and they sketch and they lay out spaghetti .
they spend a lot of their time in assembly all the time growing structures .
and finally , just before you have no time , someone takes the marshmallow , and you &apos;re going to put it on the top , step back , and &quot; ta-da &quot; -- admire your work .
but then what happens , almost always , is that the ta-da becomes a uh-oh , because the weight of the marshmallows causes the whole thing to bend and collapse .
there are a number of people who have much more &quot; uh-oh &quot; moments than others , and among the worst are fresh bwl graduates .
it &apos;s because you &apos;re busy with other things , you ask yourself , &quot; should i marry or not ? should i marry now ?
they lie , they cheat , they &apos;re confused , they make really sketchy shapes .
and of course , there are teams who have much more ta-da shapes , and among the best are fresh graduates in kindergarten .
and that &apos;s quite amazing .
as peter told us , not only did they produce the highest towers , but also the most interesting structures of all .
what you might ask is , how does that happen ? why ? what about those ?
and peter says , &quot; none of the kids spend time being the head of the spaghetti gmbh . &quot;
they don &apos;t spend time in power fights .
but there &apos;s another reason .
and that is that bwl students were trained to find the right plan , ok !
and then realizing it .
should i get married later ? should i have children first , or should i have a career ? &quot;
what happens when you put the marshmallow on the top , you don &apos;t have time , and what happens ?
it &apos;s a crisis .
sounds familiar , what ?
what kindergarten kids do differently is they start with the marshmallow and they build prototypes , successful prototypes , always with the marshmallow at the top , so that they have multiple times the ability to repair bloody prototypes .
constructors recognize this kind of collaboration as the core of an iterative process .
and with every attempt , the kids get immediate feedback , which works and what doesn &apos;t .
so the performance of working with prototypes is a lot -- but let &apos;s see how different teams act .
the average for most people is about five inches , bwl students create half of them , a little bit more lawyers , but not much , kindergarten children are better than the adults .
who is the most successful ?
architects and engineers , fortunately .
these are all engaging questions .
one meter is the highest thing i &apos;ve seen .
and why ? because you understand triangles and self-enhancing geometric patterns are the key to build stable structures .
ceos are a little bit about average . but this is where it gets interesting .
if you put an executive administrator on the team , they get significantly better .
it &apos;s incredible . you look around and you see , &quot; this team will win . &quot;
you can predict that . why does that happen ?
because they have special skills of processing companions .
you run the process , you understand it .
and the team that rules and looks at the work will significantly improve the performance of the team .
specialized skills and processing skills and their combination lead to success .
and you &apos;re going to answer these questions regardless of whether that means doing all the tasks that i &apos;m telling you and not getting a good note in my class .
if you have 10 teams that are typical , you get about six that have stable structures .
i was trying a little bit more exciting .
i thought , well , let &apos;s bring poker use right now .
so i offered a $ 10,000 prize in software for the winners .
what do you think happened to these design students ?
what was the result ?
this is what happened . not a team had a stable structure .
if anyone had built a two-inch construction , they would have carried the price home .
so isn &apos;t it interesting that high competitions have a strong effect ?
we repeated this exercise with the same students .
and in fact , you should do that . these are important questions to answer .
now , what do you think happened ?
now they understood the advantage of the prototyping .
so from the same , bad team became one of the best .
they produced the highest construction in the least time .
so there are profound lessons for us , about nature of drive and success .
you might ask : why would someone actually spend time creating a marshmallow challenge ?
the reason is , i &apos;m helping create digital tools and processes to help teams create cars , video games and visual effects .
and what the marshmallow challenge does is it helps them identify hidden assumptions .
because frankly , every project has its own marshmallow .
the challenge provides a shared experience , a common language , a common ground , to build the right prototype .
work -- we &apos;re blessed , as carl pointed out , with the technology that allows us to work every minute of every place on the planet every day -- except for the randolph hotel .
and this is the value of this experience , this simple exercise .
and those of you who are interested can go to marshmallowchallenge.com .
it &apos;s a blog where you see the marshmallows building .
there &apos;s a step-by-step manual there .
they find crazy examples from around the world how people optimize and refine the system .
there are world record as well .
and the fundamental lesson , i think , is that construction is actually a connective sport .
it demands that we all focus our senses on the task and that we use our thinking optimally , like our emotions and our actions , in the challenge that we face .
and sometimes a small prototype of this experience is everything it takes to get us from a &quot; uh-oh &quot; -- to a &quot; ta-da &quot; moment .
and that can make a big difference .
there &apos;s a corner , by the way , which i &apos;m not going to tell you about , which is the wiring plan .
thank you .
we pretend to have a machine here .
a big machine , a cool , ted machine , and that &apos;s a time machine .
and everybody in this room has to go in .
and you can go to the past , you can go to the future ; you can &apos;t stay here and now .
and i wonder what you would choose , because i &apos;ve often asked my friends this question , and they all wanted to go to the past .
i don &apos;t know . they wanted to go back to the time before there was cars or twitter or &quot; america is looking for the superstar . &quot;
i don &apos;t know .
i believe that somehow you &apos;ve moved to nostalgia , to wonder .
and i understand that .
i &apos;m not going to tell you because i want to use it .
i &apos;m not part of this group , i have to say .
i don &apos;t want to go into the past , and that &apos;s not because i &apos;m an adventurer .
it &apos;s because possibilities on this planet don &apos;t go back , they go forward .
so i want to go into this machine , and i want to go into the future .
and then all of a sudden you would realize what it would be like if you couldn &apos;t speak your own language .
this is the greatest time that we &apos;ve ever had on this planet , no matter what scale you &apos;re putting on : health , wealth , mobility , opportunities , declining rates of disease .
there &apos;s never been a time like this before .
my great-grandparents all died when they were 60 .
my grandparents were pushing this number to 70 .
my parents are the 80 on the ferences .
so there should be a nine at the beginning of my death number .
so what it means to make decisions about this incredible freedom of choice in terms of work , over and over again , whether we should work or not work .
but it &apos;s not even about people like us , because this is a bigger thing than that .
a child born in new delhi today can expect to live as long as the richest man in the world 100 years ago .
think about it . that &apos;s an incredible fact .
and why is that ?
smallpox . smallpox killed billions of people on this planet .
they &apos;ve reformed the demographics of the earth in a way that no war has ever done .
they &apos;re gone . they &apos;re gone .
we forced them . puff .
in the rich world , diseases that millions of us have been threatened before just one generation , are barely threatened .
diphony , roman , child paralysis ...
we can watch our kids play football , and we have our cell phone on one hip , and our blackberry on another hip , and our laptop probably on our lap .
does anybody know what that is ?
vaccines , modern medicine , our ability to feed billions of people , are the success of the scientific method .
and in my view , the scientific method to try things out , to see if it works , to change it , if it doesn &apos;t , is one of the greatest achievements in humanity .
so that &apos;s the good news .
unfortunately , it &apos;s all the good news , because there are a few other problems , and they &apos;ve been mentioned a lot .
and one of them is that despite all our achievements , a billion people in the world are going to bed hungry every day .
this number goes up , and it goes up very quickly , and that &apos;s embarrassing .
and not only that , we &apos;ve used our imagination to devastation this world thoroughly .
drinking water , ancient land , rainforests , oil , gas : they disappear , soon , and if we don &apos;t innovate out of this chaos , we &apos;re going to disappear .
so the question is , can we do that ? i think so .
and even though you &apos;re all turned off , every minute we &apos;re watching our child mutilating a football game , we &apos;re also wondering , &quot; should i accept this call ?
i think it &apos;s clear that we can produce food that will feed billions of people without raping the land that they live on .
i think we can supply this world with energy that it doesn &apos;t destroy at the same time .
i really believe that , and no , that &apos;s not a wishful thought .
but this is what keeps me awake at night -- one of the things that keeps me awake at night . we &apos;ve never needed scientific progress as badly as it is now , never before .
and we &apos;ve never been able to use it reasonably , as we can today .
we &apos;re at the threshold of amazing , astonishing events in many areas , and yet i really think that we have to go back hundreds of , 300 years before the enlightenment to find a time when we &apos;ve fought progress , where we &apos;ve done more of these things than we have now .
people are covering themselves in their faith , so tightly that you can &apos;t free them .
not even the truth will liberate it .
and listen , everybody has a right to their opinion , even a right to their opinion of progress .
but you know what you &apos;re not right about ?
should i answer that email ? should i write that letter ? &quot;
they don &apos;t have a right to their own facts . &apos; debt , they don &apos;t .
and it took me a while to figure that out .
about a decade ago , i wrote an article about vaccinations for &quot; the new yorker , &quot; a little article .
and i was amazed to refuse to resistance , to resistance to what is ultimately the most effective thing in health care in the history of humanity .
i didn &apos;t know what to do , so i just did what i always do , i wrote an article , and i went on .
and soon after that , i wrote an article about genetically modified food .
same thing , just bigger .
people were playing crazy .
so i also wrote an article about this , and i couldn &apos;t understand why people thought that was &quot; frankenfood , &quot; why they believed that molecules were going to move around in a certain way , rather than a random way , a handle on the field of nature .
but you know , i do what i do . i wrote the article , i continued .
and even though the answer to the question &quot; no , &quot; it &apos;s certainly your experience of the football game of your child is very different than it would have been .
i mean , i &apos;m a journalist .
we type , we submit , we eat , that &apos;s okay .
but i was worried about these articles , and i couldn &apos;t figure out why , and finally , i found out .
and that &apos;s because these fanatics who made me crazy were not fanatics at all .
these were thoughtful people , educated people , decent people .
they were just like the people in this room .
and that made me so mess .
but then i thought , you know what , let &apos;s face it .
we &apos;re at a point where we don &apos;t have the same relationship to progress as we used to .
we &apos;re talking twenty about it .
everywhere we look , big things and small things , material things and lifestyle , life is a question of choice .
we talk about it ironically , with a little bit of leadership around it , &quot; progress . &quot;
okay , there are reasons for that , and i think we know what the reasons are .
we &apos;ve lost the trust in institutions , in authority , and sometimes in science itself , and there &apos;s no reason why it shouldn &apos;t be like that .
you can just call them a few names and people will understand .
chernobyl , bhopal , the challenger , vioxx , weapons of mass destruction , the u.s. presidential election in 2000 .
i mean , you know , you can choose your own list .
there are questions and problems with the people we thought were always right , so be skeptical .
ask questions , ask for evidence , ask for evidence .
take nothing for granted .
but here &apos;s the thing : if you get the evidence , you have to take this evidence , and we &apos;re not good at it .
and the world that we lived in looked like this .
and i can say that for the reason that we &apos;re now living in an epidemic of fear , as i &apos;ve never seen before , and hopefully we &apos;ll never see again .
about 12 years ago , a story was published , a terrible story that connected the autism epidemic to the masses , mump , and roman vaccine .
very scary .
studies were done to see if this was true .
studies should be done ; that &apos;s a serious issue .
the data came in .
the data came in from the united states , from england , from sweden , from canada , and they were all the same , no correlation , no connection , no connection .
it doesn &apos;t matter . it doesn &apos;t matter because we believe in anecdotes , we believe what we see , what we believe , what makes us feel real .
we don &apos;t believe in a bunch of documents from a government agency that gives us data , and i understand that , i think , we all do .
but you know what ?
so i want to say , there were some choices , but not everything was a question of choice .
the result of that was catastrophic .
catastrophic , because of this fact , the united states is one of the only countries in the world where the immunization rates are falling for masses .
this is scandalous , and we should be ashamed .
it &apos;s terrible .
what happened was that we could do that .
well , i understand that . i do that .
because does anybody have masses here ?
has a single person in the audience ever seen them die of masses ?
it doesn &apos;t happen very often .
it doesn &apos;t happen at all in this country , but 160,000 times in the world last year .
and the world that we live in now looks like this .
that &apos;s a lot of deaths by masses , 20 hours per hour .
but because this didn &apos;t happen here , we can displace it , and people like jenny mccarthy can walk around and preach messages of fear and illiteracy of platforms like oprah and larry king live .
and they can do that because they don &apos;t connect cause and correlation .
they don &apos;t understand that these things seem to be the same , but almost never the same .
and this is something that we need to learn , and it &apos;s very quick .
this guy was a hero , jonas salk .
he liberated us from one of the worst humankind minds .
no fear , no source , no child paralysis , no puff , disappeared .
the guy in the middle doesn &apos;t do that much .
it &apos;s called paul offit .
and the question is , are these good news or bad news ?
he &apos;s just developed a rotavirus-vaccine with a few other people .
he can save the lives of 400- , 500,000 children a year in the developing world .
pretty good , right ?
now , that &apos;s good , except for paul to go around and talk about vaccines and say how valuable they are , and that people should just stop jamming .
and he actually says that .
so today , i want to take you on a journey through the ethnosphere , a quick journey through the ethnosphere , to try and understand what &apos;s actually been lost .
so paul is a terrorist .
when paul speaks in a public audience , he can &apos;t say without the armed watchman .
he gets calls at home because people like to tell him that they know where his kids go to school .
and why ? because paul made a vaccine .
i don &apos;t need to say that , but vaccines are essential .
the answer is yes .
if you take it away , you reverse the diseases , terrible diseases , and that &apos;s happening right now .
we now have masses in this country .
and that gets worse , and pretty soon , children will die again , because that &apos;s just one question of numbers .
and they &apos;re not just going to die of masses .
what about child paralysis ? let &apos;s take that . why not ?
a commander of mine wrote me a couple of weeks ago , and she said , &quot; i &apos;m a little bit too shredded . &quot;
no one has ever said that before .
she wouldn &apos;t vaccinate her child against child paralysis . no way .
fine .
why ? because we don &apos;t have child paralysis . and you know what ?
we all know what &apos;s good about it , so i &apos;m going to get over it , what &apos;s bad about it .
we didn &apos;t have child paralysis in this country yesterday .
today , i don &apos;t know , maybe somebody in lagos this morning went to an airplane and just flies to los angeles , right now it &apos;s over ohio .
and in a few hours , he lands and rents a car , and he comes to long beach , and he &apos;s going to visit one of these fantastic ted dinner tonight .
and he doesn &apos;t know that he &apos;s infected with a paralyzing disease , and we don &apos;t know , because that &apos;s how the world works .
this is the planet that we live on . don &apos;t pretend it &apos;s not .
we love to wrap up in lies . we love that .
did you take all your vitamins this morning ?
echinacea , a little antioxidancy that helps you on the jumps .
i know you &apos;ve done this because half of americans do this every day .
they take this stuff , and they take alternative cure , and it doesn &apos;t make any difference how often we find out they &apos;re useless .
all of these choices have two effects , two negative effects on people .
the data shows this all the time .
they evaporate their urine . they almost never do .
that &apos;s okay , you want to pay 28 billion dollars for dark urine .
i totally agree with you .
dark urine . dark .
why do we do that ? why do we do that ?
well , i think i understand -- we hate the pharmaceutical industry .
we hate too much a government . we don &apos;t have trust in the system .
and we shouldn &apos;t . our healthcare system is mice .
it &apos;s cruel to millions of people .
one effect , paradoxically , is that it paralyzes instead of liberating .
it &apos;s absolutely amazingly cold and pathetic to ourselves who can afford it .
so we &apos;re going away from that , and where are we going ?
we &apos;re going into the arms of the placebo industry .
that &apos;s great . i love the placebo industry .
but you know , it &apos;s really a serious issue , because the stuff is crap , and we spend billions of dollars on it .
and i have all kinds of little props here .
none of them -- gingko , fraud , echinacea , fraud , acai , i don &apos;t even know what that is , but we spend billions of dollars on it , it &apos;s fraud .
and you know what ? when i say that , people scream at me and say , &quot; what do you care ? let people do what they want .
that &apos;s how you feel . &quot;
and you know what ? you &apos;re wrong .
with so many options you can choose , people have a very hard time deciding .
because it doesn &apos;t matter to me whether it &apos;s the minister of health who says , &quot; hmm , i &apos;m not going to take the evidence of my experts to mammography , &quot; or any cancer source salver who wants to treat his patients with caffs .
if you &apos;re on this path , where belief and magic replace evidence and science , you get to a place where you don &apos;t want to be .
they get to thabo mbeki in south africa .
he killed 400,000 of his people because he insisted that red beef , bone and lemon oil are much more effective than antiretroviral drugs that we know can break the course of aids .
hundreds of thousands of unnecessary deaths in one country , which is scattered worse than any other one of these diseases .
don &apos;t tell me that these things don &apos;t have consequences .
they have them . they always have them .
now , the most brainless epidemic that we &apos;re in right now is this absurd struggle between the advocates of genetically modified food and the bio-elite .
this is an idiotic debate . it has to stop .
it &apos;s a debate about words , about metaphors .
i &apos;m going to give you another dramatic example of this , a study on volunteers &apos; investment .
this is ideology , not science .
everything we eat , every branch of petersilence , every branch of petersilia , every rosecoal , has been changed by people .
you know , there were no mandarin paradise .
there were no cantaloupe-melons .
there were no christmas trees . we did all this .
we &apos;ve done it in the last 11,000 years .
and some of it worked and some of it didn &apos;t work .
we got rid of what didn &apos;t work .
now we can make it more specific . and of course there are risks , but we can do something like vitamin a in rice , and that stuff can help millions of people to extend their lives .
you don &apos;t want to do that ?
a colleague of mine had access to investment records of vanguard , the giant fondsociety of about a million employees and about 2,000 different jobs .
i have to say , i don &apos;t understand that .
we reject genetically modified food .
why do we do that ?
now , what i hear all the time is : too many chemicals , pesticides , hormones , monoculture , we don &apos;t want huge fields with one thing , that &apos;s wrong .
we don &apos;t want companies to patent lives .
we don &apos;t want companies to have seeds .
and you know what my answer to all of this is ?
yeah , you &apos;re right . let &apos;s fix that .
it &apos;s true , we have a huge food problem , but that &apos;s not science .
this has nothing to do with science .
and what she found was a 10 investment fund that the employer offered , took the participation by two percent .
it &apos;s right , morality , patent stuff .
you know , science is not a company .
it &apos;s not a country .
it &apos;s not even an idea ; it &apos;s a process .
it &apos;s a process , and sometimes it works and sometimes it doesn &apos;t work , but the idea that we shouldn &apos;t allow science to do its work , because we &apos;re afraid of a real dead end , and it keeps millions of people from blowing up .
you know , in the next 50 years , we &apos;re going to have to grow 70 percent more food than we are right now . 70 percent .
this investment in africa over the last 30 years .
shame . embarrassing .
you need that , and we don &apos;t give it to you .
and why ? genetically modified food .
they &apos;re offering 50 investment fund -- 10 percent less employees participate than if they were just offering five . why ?
we don &apos;t want to encourage people to eat this rotten stuff , like maniok .
maniok is something that half a billion people eat .
it &apos;s kind of like a potato .
it &apos;s just a bunch of calories . it &apos;s mice .
it has no nutrients , it has no protein , and scientists are building in it all .
and then people could eat , and they wouldn &apos;t get blinded .
you wouldn &apos;t starve , and you know what ?
that would be nice . it wouldn &apos;t be chez panisse , but it would be nice .
and all i can say is , why do we fight this ?
i mean , let &apos;s ask ourselves , why do we fight this ?
because it &apos;s 50 investment fund , which is a choice , it &apos;s so hard to decide which one to choose that they &apos;re going to put it on tomorrow .
because we don &apos;t want to move genes around ?
it &apos;s not about pushing genes around . it &apos;s not about chemicals .
it &apos;s not about our ridiculous passion for hormones , our insists on larger food , better food , unique food .
it &apos;s not about rice krispies , it &apos;s about keeping people alive , and it &apos;s about time to understand what that means .
now , there are some of us who sort of forget that when i say , &quot; different possibilities of being , &quot; i mean really different possibilities of being .
because you know what ?
if we don &apos;t do that , if we keep on going , we &apos;re going to be guilty of something that i think we don &apos;t want to be guilty of , high-tech colonialism .
there &apos;s no other description for what &apos;s going on here .
it &apos;s selfish , it &apos;s ugly , it &apos;s not worthy , and we really have to stop that .
so after this incredibly funny conversation , you might want to say , &quot; do you still want to go into this ridiculous time machine and the future ? &quot;
anyway . i certainly want that .
and then tomorrow , and then tomorrow , and tomorrow , and tomorrow , of course , and tomorrow never comes .
at the moment , it &apos;s in the present , but we have an incredible opportunity .
we can put this time machine on everything we want .
we can move them where we want to move them , and we &apos;ll move them where we want to go .
we have to have these conversations , and we have to think , but when we get into the time machine and go into the future , we &apos;ll be happy to have done that .
i know that we can , and as far as i &apos;m concerned , that &apos;s something that the world needs now .
thank you .
thank you .
for a while , i &apos;ve been interested in the placebo effect , and it may seem strange that a magician is interested in it , unless you think of it as , &quot; a deception that becomes real when someone believes only enough of it . &quot;
in other words , sugar pills have shown a measurable effect in some studies , the placebo effect , and that &apos;s just because the person thinks what &apos;s happening to her , whether it &apos;s a pharmaceutical or a kind of -- in pain management , for example , if the patient believes only enough , there &apos;s a measurable effect in the body called the placebo effect .
a deception becomes something real because someone perceives it that way .
understand that it &apos;s not just that people have to eat dog food when they go to retirement , because they don &apos;t have enough money to go back , it also means making decisions so hard that they miss big investment offers of their employers .
so in order for us to understand each other , i &apos;d like to show you a fundamental , very simple magic trick .
and i &apos;m going to show you how it works . this is a trick that has been in every magic book for children since the 1950s .
i learned it from the cub scout magic of the path finder in the 1970s .
i &apos;m going to do it for you and then explain it .
and then i &apos;ll explain why i explain it .
so , look what happens .
the knife you can study ; my hand you can study .
i &apos;m just going to keep the knife in my axe like this .
i &apos;m going to push my sleeve back .
and to make sure that nothing in my sleeve disappears or comes out of it , i &apos;m just going to put my wrist together right here .
by not participating , they give up to 5,000 u.s. dollars a year on the employer who would have been happy to reproduce their contribution .
so you can see that there &apos;s no time anything moving at all , and as long as i &apos;m pressing here , nothing can go into my sleeve or come out .
and the goal is very simple .
i &apos;m going to open my hand , and hopefully , if everything goes well , the knife is held by my mere physical magnetism .
it &apos;s actually so stuck in its place that i can shake it without the knife falling down .
nothing goes into my sleeve or comes out , no trickiness . and you can study everything .
ta-da !
now , this is a trick that i often contribute to little kids who are interested in magic , because you can learn a lot about deception when you look more closely , even though it &apos;s a very simple trick .
probably many of you in the room know this trick .
and here &apos;s how it works .
i hold the knife in my hand .
paralysis is a consequence of too many choices .
i say that i include my wrist to make sure that nothing in my sleeve disappears or comes out , and that &apos;s a lie .
the reason i hold my wrist is because it &apos;s the real secret of the illusion .
we &apos;re all born . we bring children to the world .
because the moment i turn my hand away from you , so you can see it from the back , this finger here , my index finger , just from where it was , into a position where it &apos;s so extended .
great trick ?
there &apos;s someone sitting there who didn &apos;t have a childhood .
so , it &apos;s here . right .
and when i turn around , the finger changes its position .
and now you could talk about why this is a deception , why you don &apos;t perceive that you &apos;re only seeing three fingers down here , because the mind and the way that it processes information is not counting it , one , two , three , but seeing it as a group .
but that &apos;s actually not what this is about . and then i open my hand .
of course , it &apos;s being kept there , but not by the magnetism of my body , but by a trick , by my time finger , which is now there .
and i think it makes the world look like this .
and when i close my hand , the same thing happens by turning back , it &apos;s hidden by this movement that the finger is moving back .
i take this hand away . and here &apos;s the knife .
this trick you can do to your friends and neighbors . thank you .
now , what does this have to do with the placebo effect ?
a year ago or so , i read a study that really blew my mind .
i &apos;m not a doctor or a researcher , and so this was an amazing thing for me .
it turns out that if you offer a placebo in the form of a white pill , in the form of an aspirin pill , it &apos;s just a round , white pill that has a certain measurable effect .
but if you change the shape in which you give placebo , for example , into a smaller pill , and you colored those blue and you make a letter on it , it &apos;s actually more effective .
and that , although none of them are any pharmaceutical -- it &apos;s just sugar pills .
but a white pill is not as good as a blue pill .
you really want to make the decision if it &apos;s for all eternity , right ?
what ? that made me really freak out .
but it turns out that that &apos;s not all it is .
if you take capsules , they &apos;re even more effective than pills of every shape .
a colored capsule , which is at the end of yellow and the other red , is better than a white capsule .
the dosage also plays a role .
a pill twice a day is not as good as three pills -- i can &apos;t remember the exact statistics . i &apos;m sorry .
but the key thing is ...
... that the doses also matter .
and the shape plays a role .
and if you want to have the ultimate placebo effect , you have to reach the needle .
you don &apos;t want to choose the wrong investment fund , or even the wrong salad ressing .
right ? a syringe with an ineffective -- a few milliliters of an ineffective substance that you inject to a patient .
this creates a very strong picture in the head , which is much stronger than a white pill .
this chart is really -- i &apos;m going to show you another time when we have a projector .
so the fact is that the white pill doesn &apos;t work as well as the blue pill that doesn &apos;t work as well as a capsule that doesn &apos;t work as the needle .
and none of it has any really pharmaceutical property , and it &apos;s just our belief that we have a stronger effect in it .
i wanted to know if i could use this idea for a magic trick .
i take something that &apos;s obviously a deception , and i make it look real .
now , we know from this study that you have to reach the needle when it &apos;s supposed to go .
this is a four-inch hutneedle . it &apos;s very , very sharp , and i &apos;m going to start with a little bit of sterilization .
this is really my meat . this is not damian &apos;s specific breeding meat .
so this is the one effect . the other effect is that even if we overcome the paralysis and make a decision , we end less satisfied with the outcome of choice than if we had the opportunity to choose between less possibilities .
this is my skin . this is not a special effect from hollywood .
now i &apos;m going to put this needle in my skin and go through it , until it strikes back on the other side .
if you &apos;re going to be bad -- if you &apos;re going to fall easily in -- i showed this to a couple of friends last night in the hotel room , and some people i didn &apos;t know , and a woman has become almost powerless .
so i &apos;m going to suggest , if you &apos;re going to get bad , look away for the next 30 seconds , or , you know what , i &apos;m going to do the first hot part in the back .
you can see it in a moment , but you can also see it away if you want it .
so , it goes like this , right here , where my meat starts , at the bottom of my arm , i &apos;m just going to make a little einstich .
i &apos;m really sorry . does it make you crazy ?
and now just a little bit through my skin and on the other side , it &apos;s like this .
now we &apos;re actually in the same situation that we had at the knife trick .
something like that .
and there are several reasons for this .
but now you can &apos;t count my fingers , right ?
so , i &apos;m going to show you . this is one , two , three , four , five .
well , yeah .
i know what people think when they see that .
they say , &quot; okay , it &apos;s probably not that stupid and it &apos;s going to go through the skin itself , just to talk for a few minutes . &quot;
well , then i &apos;m going to show you .
what does this look like ? pretty good .
yeah , i know .
and people in the back say , &quot; okay . i didn &apos;t really see that . &quot;
people in the trees are now coming in .
one of them is induced by the great selection of different salad ressings , if you buy one , and it &apos;s not perfect -- and what salatdressing is already perfect ? it &apos;s easy to imagine that you could have made a different decision that would have been better . and what happened is this visually presented alternative leads you to regret the decision , and this regret is negative to the satisfaction that you &apos;ve made from your decision , even if it &apos;s a good decision .
let me show you this from near .
this is really my skin . this is not a special effect from hollywood .
this is my meat , and i can turn this around .
i &apos;m sorry . if you get bad , look away , don &apos;t look .
for example , take this child of the barasana in the northwest of the amazon , the people of the anakonda , believe that they came up mythologically with the dairy flow from the east in the belly of sacred snakes .
the people in the back or the people who see that later on in the video will say , &quot; well , that looks pretty impressive , but if it was real , he would -- see , here &apos;s a hole , and there , if it was real , it would bleed . &quot;
okay , let me just squeeze a little bit of blood for you .
yeah , here it is .
i would normally take the needle out now .
i would clean my arm and show you that there are no wounds .
but i think in this frame here and with the intention of making something real out of a deception , i &apos;m just going to let the needle go in there and go on the stage .
the more options there are , the easier it is not to regret at all , which is disappointing for the choice you make .
we &apos;re going to meet a few more times in the next few days .
i hope you &apos;ll look forward to that . thank you very much .
everybody is talking about happiness today .
i &apos;ve had some people count the number of books that have been published with happiness in the title of the last five years , and they spent about 40 , and there was a lot more .
there &apos;s a tremendous wave of interest in the researchers in happiness .
there &apos;s a lot of happy coaching .
everybody would like to make people happier .
but despite all this flood of work , there are several cognitive traps that make it almost impossible to think clearly about happiness .
and my talk today is mostly going to be about these cognitive tradeoffs .
this is true for laymen who are thinking about their own happiness , and it &apos;s true for scientists who are thinking about happiness , because it turns out that we are just as mess as everyone else .
secondly , what economists call oppertunity costs .
the first of these is a contradiction of admitting complexity .
it turns out that the word happiness is simply no longer a useful word , because we apply it to too many different things .
i think there &apos;s a certain meaning that we could confine it to , but by and large , that &apos;s something that we need to give up , and we &apos;re going to have to take the complicated view of what is well-being .
the second trap is a confusion of experience and memory : basically it &apos;s between being happy in his life and being happy about his life or happy with his life .
and these are two very different concepts , and they &apos;re both put together in the notion of happiness .
and the third is the concentration illusion , and that &apos;s the unfortunate fact that we can &apos;t think about a circumstance that affects well-being without distorting its meaning .
i mean , that &apos;s a real cognitive trap .
there &apos;s just no way to get it right .
now i &apos;d like to start with an example of someone who had a question and answer session after one of my lectures , who reported a story . &#91; unclear &#93; he said he had heard a symphony , and it was absolutely glorious music , and at the end of the recording , there was a terrible circle of sound .
and then he added it , really quite emotional , and it ruined the whole experience .
dan gilbert made a big point this morning by telling how much the way we evaluate things depends on what we compare .
but it didn &apos;t .
what ruined it was the memories of the experience .
he had the experience .
he had 20 minutes of glorious music .
they didn &apos;t count because he was in love with a memory ; the memory was ruined , and the memory was all he had to keep .
what this really tells us is that we could think about ourselves and other people in the sense of two types of self .
there &apos;s a living self that lives in the present and knows the present , that is able to experience the past , but has basically only the present .
it &apos;s the inheritance of the physician -- you know , when the doctor says , &quot; is it hurting when i &apos;m going to touch you here ? &quot;
and then there &apos;s a memory of self , and the memory itself is the one that counts and sustains the story of our lives , and it &apos;s the one that the doctor calls by asking the question , &quot; how did you feel lately ? &quot;
or , &quot; what was your journey to albania ? &quot; or something like that .
well , if there &apos;s a lot of alternatives to think about , it &apos;s simply attractive properties of alternatives that you exclude , that makes you less happy with the alternatives that you &apos;ve chosen .
these are two very different units , the living self and the remembering self , and the two of them are part of the very different terms of happiness .
now , the memory itself is a storyteller .
and that really starts with a fundamental reaction to our memories -- it starts immediately .
we don &apos;t just tell stories when we &apos;re going to tell stories .
our memory tells us stories , which is what we can keep from our experiences is a story .
and let &apos;s start with an example .
there &apos;s an old study .
these are actual patients who are undergoing a painful procedure .
i &apos;m not going to go into the details . she &apos;s not painful now , but she was painful when this study was done in the 1990s .
they were asked to report their pain every 60 seconds .
here &apos;s an example . for those of you who are not new yorkers , i apologize .
and here are two patients . these are their records .
and they &apos;re asked , &quot; who of them suffered more ? &quot;
and that &apos;s a very simple question .
patient b clearly suffered more . his gut reflection was longer , and every minute of pain that patient a had patient b , and more .
but now there &apos;s another question : &quot; how much did these patients think they were suffering ? &quot;
and here &apos;s a surprise .
and the surprise is that patient a had a much worse memory of the gut reflection than patient b .
the stories of the gut reflections were different , and because a very critical part of the story is how it ends .
and none of these stories are very building or great -- but one of them is clear ...
but one of them is much worse than the other .
but here &apos;s what you should have thought .
and the one that &apos;s worse is where the pain was at the very end of its peak . it &apos;s a bad story .
how do we know that ?
because we asked these people about their gut reflection , and much later , &quot; how bad was the whole thing ? &quot;
and she was much worse for a than for b in memory .
now , this is a direct conflict between the living self and the remembering self .
from the point of view of the living self , b clearly had a worse time .
now , what you could do with patient a , and we actually did clinical experiments , and it &apos;s been done , and it works , you could actually extende the patient a &apos;s gut reflection by just letting the tube in there without shaking too much on it .
this is going to lead the patient to suffer , but only a little bit less than before .
and if you do that for a few minutes , you &apos;ve been able to make sure that the living self is worse off of patient a , and you &apos;ve been able to make the memory of patient a much better off , because now you &apos;ve given patient a a a better story about your experience .
what is a story about ?
here &apos;s a couple on the hamptons .
and that &apos;s true of the stories that memory provides us , and it &apos;s true of the stories that we invent .
what a story expresses is outbreaks , significant moments and ends .
it &apos;s very , very important , and in this case , the end dominated .
now , the heritage itself lives his life continuously .
it has moments of life , one by one .
and you ask , what happens to these moments ?
and the answer is really simple . they &apos;re lost forever .
i mean , most of the moments of our lives -- and i &apos;ve calculated this -- you know , the psychological presence is about three seconds , which means , you know , there are about 600 million of them in a life . in a month , there are about 600,000 of them . most of them don &apos;t leave .
most of you are completely ignored by the memory of yourself .
and yet , somehow you get the impression that you should count , that what happened during that moment of life , our lives have been .
very expensive real estate .
it &apos;s the limited resource that we use while we &apos;re in this world .
and how we use it would seem to be important , but that &apos;s not the story that keeps the memory for ourselves .
so we have the memory of ourselves and the living self , and they &apos;re really quite different .
the biggest difference between them is the process of time .
from the perspective of the living , if you have a vacation , and the second week is as good as the first , then the two-week vacation is twice as good as the one-week vacation .
that &apos;s not how it works for the memory itself at all .
for the memory itself , a two-week vacation is hardly better than the one-week vacation , because there are no new memories that are added .
they didn &apos;t change the story .
and in this way , time is actually the critical variable that distinguishes a memory of a living self , time has very little influence on this story .
now , the memory itself makes more than remembering and telling stories .
beautiful beach . great day . they have it all for themselves .
it &apos;s actually the one who makes decisions , because if you have a patient who , say , had two gut reflections in two different surgeons and decides what to choose , then the one who chooses the one who has the memory , which is less bad , and that &apos;s the surgeon who &apos;s going to be selected .
the heritage itself has no voice in this choice .
in fact , we don &apos;t choose between experiences . we choose between memories of experiences .
and even when we think about the future , we don &apos;t usually think of our future as experiences .
we think about our future as foreseen memories .
and basically , you can look at this , you know , as a tyranny of the memory itself , and you can think of the memory of yourself as one that sort of draws the living itself through experiences that the living itself doesn &apos;t need .
i have the impression that if we do vacation , it &apos;s very often the case , which is to say , we do vacation largely in the service of the memory itself .
and that &apos;s a little hard to justify , i think .
i mean , how much do we consume our memories ?
this is one of the explanations that is given to the dominance of the memory itself .
what could be better ? &quot; damn ! &quot; the man thinks , &quot; it &apos;s august .
and when i think about it , i think of a vacation that we did a few years ago in antarctica , which was clearly the best vacation i &apos;ve ever had , and i think quite often about how often i think of other vacations .
and i &apos;ve probably eaten from my memories of this three-week journey , i would say for about 25 minutes in the last four years .
now , if i had ever opened the folder with the 600 pictures in it , i would have spent another hour .
well , that &apos;s three weeks , and that &apos;s at least one and a half hours .
there seems to be disagreement .
this is a people who are not cognitively distinguished between the colors blue and the green , because the sky scene is equated to the forest that people depend on .
now , i may be a little extreme , you know , how little appetite i have on my ears of memories , but even if you make more of them , there &apos;s a real question . why do we give memories so much weight in the course of the weight that we give experiences ?
so i want you to think about a thought experiment .
imagine your next vacation , you know , at the end of the vacation , all of your images are being destroyed , and you get an amnesiac drug , so you won &apos;t remember anything .
now , would you choose the same vacation ?
and if you were to choose another vacation , there &apos;s a conflict between your two types of self , and you have to think about how you decide this conflict , and that &apos;s really not obvious at all , because if you think about time , you get an answer , and if you think about memories , you might get a different answer .
everybody in my manhattan neighborhood is gone .
why we choose the vacation that we choose is a problem that we face with a choice between the two types of self .
now , the two types of self throw up two terms of happiness .
there are actually two concepts of happiness that we can apply , one per self .
so you can ask : how happy is the living self ?
and then you would ask : how happy are the moments in the life of the living self ?
and they &apos;re all -- happiness for moments is a pretty complicated process .
what are the emotions that can be measured ?
and , by the way , we &apos;re now able to get a pretty good idea of the happiness of the living itself over time .
if you ask about the happiness of the memory itself , it &apos;s a very different thing .
this is not about how happy a person lives .
i could park right in front of my house . &quot;
it &apos;s about how happy or happy the person is when they think about their lives .
very different terms .
anyone who doesn &apos;t distinguish these terms is going to mess up the exploration of happiness , and i &apos;m part of a lot of researchers on well-being who have long been messing up the study of happiness in this way .
the distinction between the happiness of the living itself and the happiness of the memory itself has been recognized in the last few years , and now you &apos;re trying to measure the two separate .
the gallup organization has a global survey where more than half a million people have been asked questions about what they think about their lives and about their experiences , and there were other efforts in the direction .
so in the last few years , we &apos;ve started to learn about the happiness of both kinds of self .
and the main lesson that i think we &apos;ve learned is that they &apos;re really different .
you can know how happy someone is with their life , and that really doesn &apos;t teach them much about how happy they live their lives and vice versa .
just to give you a sense of correlation , the correlation is about .5 .
what that means is that if you were to meet someone and you were to tell them , oh , his father is a two-meter man , how much would you know about his size ?
and he spends two weeks of the thought that he has lost the opportunity to have a great parking lot day after day .
now , you would know something about its size , but there &apos;s a lot of uncertainty .
they have so much uncertainty .
if i tell you that somebody has put his life as eight on a scale of 10 , you have a lot of uncertainty about how happy he is with his living self .
so the correlation is low .
we know something about what the happiness of happiness is .
we know that money is very important , goals are very important .
we know that happiness is mostly about being satisfied with people we like , spending time with people we like .
there are other pleasures , but that &apos;s dominant .
so if you want to maximize the happiness of the two types of self , you &apos;ll end up doing very different things .
the conclusion from what i said here is that we really shouldn &apos;t think of happiness as a replacement for well-being .
optunity costs reduce the happiness that we get from our choice , even if what we chose is fantastic .
it &apos;s a completely different term .
now , very briefly , another reason that we can &apos;t clearly think about happiness is that we don &apos;t pay attention to the same things when we think about life , and when we actually live .
so if you ask the simple question of how happy people are in california , you &apos;re not going to get the right answer .
if you ask this question , you think that people have to be happier in california when you live , say , in ohio .
and what happens is , when you think about life in california , think about the difference between california and other places , and that difference is , say , in the climate .
well , it turns out that climate is not very important for the living self , and it &apos;s not even very important for the thoughtful self that decides how happy people are .
but now , because the thoughtful self is responsible , you can end up -- some people could end up going to california .
and it &apos;s kind of interesting to track what happens to people who move to california in hoping to become happier .
well , your living self is not going to be happier .
we know that .
and the more options there are for choice , the more attractive traits of this choice are taken into account the oppertunity cost .
but one thing is going to happen . you &apos;re going to think you &apos;re happier , because if you think about it , you &apos;re going to be reminded of how terrible the weather was in ohio , and you &apos;re going to feel that you &apos;ve made the right decision .
it &apos;s very difficult to think about well-being , and i hope i &apos;ve given you a sense of how hard it is .
thank you .
thank you . i have a question for you .
thank you .
now , when we were on the phone a couple of weeks ago , they were mentioning me that there was a pretty interesting result that came out of this gallup poll .
is this something you can let us participate in , because you have a few minutes left now ?
daniel kahneman : sure .
i think the most interesting thing we &apos;ve found in the gallup poll is a number that we had absolutely not expected to find .
we found that in terms of the happiness of the living itself .
here &apos;s another example .
when we looked at how emotions are variing with income .
and it turns out that , under an income of 60,000 dollars a year , for americans , and this is a very large sample of americans , about 600,000 , but it &apos;s a big representative sample , under a $ 600,000 income a year .
60,000 .
dk : 60,000 .
and 60,000 dollars a year , people are unhappy , and they &apos;re getting more and more unhappy as they get poorer .
we get an absolutely flat line on that .
i mean , i rarely saw flat lines like this .
what happens is , obviously , that money doesn &apos;t give you an experience of happiness , but that lack of money certainly makes you miserable , and we can measure this misery very , very clearly .
in the sense of the other self , the memory itself , you get a different story .
the more money you make , the happier you are .
now , this cartoon makes some statements .
that &apos;s not true of emotions .
but danny , in the entire american quest , is about life , freedom , the pursuit of happiness .
if people took this finding seriously , i mean , it seems to turn everything upside down , everything we believe , for example , in terms of tax policy and so on .
is there a chance that politicians , in general , would take a finding like the seriousness and make it based on politics ?
dk : you know , i think there &apos;s recognition for the role of happiness research in politics .
the recognition is going to be slow in the united states , not a question , but in the united kingdom it &apos;s happening right now , and in other countries it &apos;s happening .
people are recognizing that they should think about happiness when they think about politics .
it &apos;s going to take a while , and people will discuss whether they want to explore experience happiness , or whether they want to explore life review , so we have to have this discussion pretty soon .
how to increase happiness is very different depending on how you think and whether you think about the memory of yourself , or whether you think of the living self .
this is going to affect politics , i think , in the coming years .
he makes a statement about living in the now , and maybe also doing things slowly .
in the united states , you &apos;re trying to measure the experience happiness of the population .
that , i think , will be part of the national statistics in the next decade or two .
well , it seems to me that this topic is going to be , or should at least be the most interesting political debate to track over the next few years .
thank you very much for the invention of behavioral economics .
thank you , danny kahneman .
i &apos;m jane mcgonigal . i design video games .
i &apos;ve been developing online games for 10 years now , and my goal for the next decade is to make it as easy to save the world in reality as to save it in online games .
i have a plan for that . i want to convince more people , including all of them , to spend more time playing bigger and more fun games .
we &apos;re currently spending three billion hours a week playing online games .
some of you might think , &quot; this is a lot of time for games . &quot;
but one important point that he does is : whenever you choose to do one thing , you don &apos;t choose to do other things .
maybe a little too much time when you think about how many problems we have to solve in the real world .
but in fact , according to my research at the institute for the future , it &apos;s exactly the opposite .
three billion hours a week are not nearly enough to solve the world &apos;s most urgent problems .
in fact , i &apos;m convinced that if we want to survive the next century on this planet , we have to dramatically increase that time .
i &apos;ve calculated that the time it takes at 21 billion hours of play a week .
this may first seem a little bit tricky , so i repeat it so that if we want to solve problems like hunger , poverty , climate change , global conflict and obesity , i think we need to try to play games online for at least 21 billion hours a week to the end of the next decade .
no , i &apos;m really serious .
why ? this picture pretty much describes why i think games are so critical to the survival of human species in the future . seriously .
this is a portrait of the photographer phil toledano .
he wanted to capture the feelings when he was playing , so he built a camera in front of the players .
and these other things may have a lot of attractive properties , and it becomes what they &apos;re going to do less attractive .
this is one of the classic expressions of play .
if you &apos;re not a player , you might have some of the nuances in this picture .
you probably see this sense of urgency , a little bit of fear , but also very first concentration , very deep into solving a really difficult problem .
if you &apos;re also playing , you see some nuances here that are zooming up , and the mouth are a sign of optimism . the eyebrows are surprising .
this is a player standing on the edge of a so-called epic victory .
they have a strange language , and a marriage rule called linguistic exogamy : you have to marry someone who speaks a different language .
oh , you know that . ok . fine . so we have some players here .
an epic victory is a result that is so exceedingly positive that you didn &apos;t know that it was possible at all .
it was almost beyond the imagination .
and when you get to it , you &apos;re shocked that you &apos;re actually capable of something like that . this is an epic victory .
this player is about to be an epic victory .
third , escalation of expectations .
and this is what we need to see on millions of faces of problem-solvers around the world , when we look at the hurdles of the next century , the face of those who are on the verge of all the adversity on the edge of an epic victory .
well , unfortunately , we tend to see this face in real life when we face difficult problems .
i call it &quot; in life i &apos;m bad &quot; face . and it &apos;s actually my face , right ? ok .
this is me making the &quot; in life i &apos;m bad &quot; face .
this is a graffiti in my former home in berkeley , california , where i studied why we are better in games than in real life .
that &apos;s a problem a lot of players have .
we think we &apos;re not as good as in play in reality .
and i don &apos;t mean only less successfully , even though that &apos;s part of it .
we do more in games . i mean , in the context of motivation to do something significant , inspired to collaborate with each other .
when we &apos;re in a game world , i think many of us are turning into our best version , anytime and instantly helpful , trying to solve the problem as long as it takes , trying to do it again after the failure .
this struck me when i wanted to exchange my jeans .
and in reality , when we fail , when we hit obstacles , we often feel different .
we feel overwhelmed . we feel defeated . we feel threatened , maybe depressed , frustrated or cynical .
we never have these feelings when we play games , they just don &apos;t exist in games .
and that &apos;s what i wanted to study as a ph.d. student .
why is it impossible in games to think that you couldn &apos;t just achieve everything ?
how can we transfer these feelings from games into reality ?
so i looked at games like the world of warcraft , which provides the ideal environment to collaborative problem-solving .
and i &apos;ve found some things that make epic victories happen in online worlds .
so , first of all , when you get in one of these online games , especially at world of warcraft , there are a lot of different characters who are willing to trust you a global mission , and immediately .
but not just any mission , but a mission that fits perfectly to your current level in the game , right ?
i &apos;m wearing jeans , almost all the time .
so you can do that .
they never get a job that they can &apos;t solve .
but always at the edge of their skills , so they have to be hard , but there &apos;s no unemployment in the world of warcraft .
you don &apos;t sit around and twist . there &apos;s always something important to do .
and there are tons of staff .
wherever you go , hundreds of thousands of people working with you to finish your epic mission .
we don &apos;t have that as easy in real life , that feeling that when you have a fingertips , you have employees ready .
and also , there &apos;s this epic story , this inspiring story of why we are there and what we have to do .
then we get all this positive feedback .
you &apos;ve heard about &quot; level up &quot; and &quot; + 1 strength , &quot; or &quot; + 1 intelligence . &quot;
and there was a time when there was only jeans in a way , and they bought them , and they missed , and they were incredibly uncomfortable , and if they wore them long enough and they washed enough , they started to feel &quot; ok . &quot;
this constant feedback is not in real life .
when i leave this stage , i don &apos;t have plus-one and plus-one crazy idea , + 20 crazy idea .
i don &apos;t get that feedback in real life .
so , the problem with cooperative online worlds like the world of warcraft is that it &apos;s so satisfying to stand on the edge of an epic victory all the time , that we prefer to spend all of our time in these games .
they &apos;re just better than reality .
to this day , all the world of warcraft-players have spent 5.93 million years trying to solve the virtual problems of azeroth .
that &apos;s not necessarily a bad thing .
it may sound bad .
but to see it in context , 5.93 million years ago , our first primate ancestors started to go upright .
so the first exciting primate .
so , to buy new jeans after many years of the old , and i said , &quot; i &apos;d like to have some jeans , here &apos;s my size . &quot;
ok , so when we talk about how much time we spend playing now , it just makes sense when you think about the scale of human development , which is extraordinary .
but also , because it turns out , by using all this time on play , we &apos;re actually changing what we can do as human beings .
we develop into collaborative , heartfelt creatures .
that &apos;s the truth . that &apos;s what i believe .
if you look at this interesting statistic that was recently published by a researcher at carnegie mellon university : the average young man today in a country with strong play culture spends 10,000 hours with online games to the 21st year .
so , 10,000 hours is a very interesting number for two reasons .
first of all , for children in the united states , 10,080 hours is the exact total amount that they spend in school , from the fifth grade to the end of high school -- if you &apos;re never missing .
so here we have a complete parallel trajectory on which young people are learning equally what it means to be a good player , like anything else they &apos;re learning in school .
and maybe some of you have read the new book by malcolm gladwell , &quot; flying . &quot;
so you know his theory of success , the theory of success of 10,000 hours .
and the salesman said , &quot; do you want snake , easy or wide ?
it &apos;s based on the great research of cognitive science , that if we spend 10,000 hours studying a tedious subject to the 21st year , we become a mastery in it .
we &apos;re getting as good at doing whatever it is , as the most important people in the world .
so , what we have here is a whole generation of young people who are master-players .
so the big question is , &quot; what exactly are players masterically good at ? &quot;
because if we could figure that out , we would have , in fact , unprecedented human potential .
so many people we have right now in the world who spend at least an hour a day playing online .
these are our master players . 500 million people who are extraordinarily good at something .
and in the next decade , we have another billion players who are extraordinarily good at whatever .
if you haven &apos;t heard it yet .
the game industry develops consoles that save energy and work on mobile networks , instead of the broadband internet , so that players around the world , especially in india , china , brazil can play online .
do you want buttons or ripples ? stone or acid ?
you expect an extra billion players in the next decade .
so we have 1.5 billion players in total .
so i started to think about what it is that these games make us master .
here are the four things i found . first of all , urgency optimism .
ok , so think of this as extreme self-motivating .
urgency optimism is the desire to do something immediately , to master a barrier , along with the belief that we have a reasonable hope for success .
players always believe that an epic victory is possible , and it &apos;s always worth trying to do it , and that &apos;s the same .
players don &apos;t sit around .
players are masters of dense social nets in spiders .
there are a lot of interesting studies that show that we like more people after we played with them , even when they defeated us .
do you want holes in jeans ?
the reason for that is that it requires a lot of trust to play with someone .
we trust that somebody &apos;s spending time with us , that the rules are held , that we have the same goal , and we &apos;re staying with it until the end .
so playing together enables the growth of bonds , trust and each other .
as a result , we &apos;re building stronger social relationships .
happy productivity . fantastic !
you know , there &apos;s a reason why the average word of warcraft-players play 22 hours a week , sort of as a part-time job .
the reason is that when we play , we &apos;re actually happier at working hard than when we relax or do nothing .
we know that as human beings , we work optimally when we do hard , significant work .
and players are always ready to work hard when they get the right job .
and finally , epic meaning .
you want to cut down , cookly , blah blah , blah , blah , and so on .
players love to become part of the awe of planetary errors .
here &apos;s a backbone formation to bring that to the right light , and you probably all know wikipedia , the largest wiki in the world .
the second largest wiki in the world , with almost 80,000 entries , is the world of warcraft wiki .
five million people use it every month .
they have more information about the world of warcraft on the internet than about any other topic in every other wiki in the world .
they create an epic story .
they create an epic source of knowledge about the world of warcraft .
ok , so these are four superpowers that lead to a single result . players are super-powerful , hopeful individuals .
it &apos;s people who believe that as individuals , they can change the world .
and the only problem is that you think you can change the virtual worlds , but not the real ones .
my jaw was down , and after i recovered , i said , &quot; i &apos;d like to have the way that used to be the only species . &quot;
that &apos;s the problem i &apos;m trying to solve .
edward castronova is a economist .
his work is brilliant . he studies why people spend so much time , energy and money in online worlds .
and he says , &quot; we &apos;re going to witness not less than a mass migration in virtual worlds and online game environments . &quot;
and this is from an economist . so he &apos;s logical .
and he says ...
all of this is rooted in the mythological past , and the strange thing about these big houses that are talked about , because of the missile , six or seven languages , is that you never hear anyone who learns a language .
not like me -- i develop games , i &apos;m a little bit overwhelming .
so he says this actually makes sense , because players can do more in online worlds than in real life .
you can build stronger social ties in games than in real life . you get more feedback and reward in games than you do in real life .
so , he says , it &apos;s completely logical at the moment that players spend more time in the virtual world than in the real world .
he had no idea what that was , so i spent an hour trying all these damn jeans , and i got the business -- and i say the truth -- with the best passenger jeans i &apos;ve ever had .
i &apos;ll just agree , that &apos;s logical .
but it &apos;s definitely not an optimal situation .
we need to start transforming the real world into a game .
my inspiration comes from an event that &apos;s 2,500 years ago .
there are these ancient cubes out of sheep needs . you know ?
in front of these fantastic game controllers , there were sheep needs .
and these were the first toys that were designed by human beings .
and if you &apos;re familiar with the work of the ancient greek historian herodotus , you may know this story . the story of how and why games were invented .
according to herodotus , games , root games , were invented in the kingdom of lydics during famine .
there was , supposedly , such a big famine that the king of lydia decided to have a crazy idea .
i had better . all this choice allowed me to have better .
people were suffering . people were fighting .
it was an extreme situation . you needed an extreme solution .
so they invented , according to herodotus , the game of the box , and they agreed a national strategy , and one day you would eat . the next day you would play .
and they would be so deeply immersed in the game of the game , because games are so fascinating and surrounding us with satisfying , happy productivity , that they would forget that there was nothing to eat .
and then , the next day you would play , and the next day you would eat .
and according to herodotus , they survived this famine for 18 years by eating one day and playing the next one .
similarly , i think , we &apos;re going to use games today .
we use games to escape the suffering of the real world .
we &apos;re putting in games to deal with everything that doesn &apos;t work in the real world , everything that &apos;s not satisfying in real life , and we &apos;re getting what we need from games .
but that doesn &apos;t have to be the end .
but i felt worse .
that &apos;s the exciting thing .
according to herodotus , after 18 years , the famine didn &apos;t get better , so the king decided to use a final game of dice .
they divided the kingdom into two halves .
they played a cube game , and the victories were allowed to break up an epic adventure .
they left lydies , and they went looking for a new home , and they were just leaving as many people as there were food to survive and looking for the rest of an area where they could thrive .
that sounds crazy , right ?
but the latest dna evidence shows that the etruskers who later formed the roman empire have the same dna as the old lydians .
so scientists recently came to the notion that herodotus &apos; crazy story was actually true .
and geologists found evidence of a global cooling that took almost 20 years to explain the famine .
so this crazy story could be true .
why ? i wrote a whole book to try and explain it to myself .
maybe they actually rescued their people through play by escaping themselves in games for 18 years , and then having this invitation and learning so much about playing with each other that they saved the whole civilization .
so , we can do that .
we &apos;ve been playing warcraft since 1994 .
this was the first strategy game in real time in the world of warcrafts series . this was 16 years ago .
they &apos;ve played cube games for 18 years , we &apos;ve been playing warcraft for 16 years .
i &apos;m saying we &apos;re ready for our own epic game .
so , they sent half of their civilization to search for a new world , so i take my 21 billion game hours a week .
we should think that half of us spend an hour a day playing until we &apos;ve solved the real world &apos;s problems .
i know you &apos;re going to ask , &quot; how do we solve problems in the real world in games ? &quot; and that &apos;s the question that i &apos;ve dedicated my work to the institute for the past few years .
we have this banner in our office in palo alto , which is how we should understand the future .
the reason i felt worse , with all these available possibilities , my expectations for what was going on for a good couple of jeans , went up .
we don &apos;t want to try to say the future before .
what we want is to create the future .
we want to think of the best possible outcome , and then we want to empower people to put that idea into reality .
we imagine epic victories , and we give people the opportunity to achieve them .
i &apos;m going to show you very briefly three games that i designed to try to make people epic victory in their own future .
this is &quot; world without oil . &quot;
the game is from 2007 .
it &apos;s an online game where you have to overcome an oil scarcity .
we &apos;ve tested this game with 1,700 players in 2007 , and we &apos;ve been accompaniing it since the last three years .
i had very low expectations . i didn &apos;t have any concrete expectations when they were just in a way .
and i can tell you , it was a transformative experience .
nobody wants to change their lives because it &apos;s good for the environment or because we should .
but if you &apos;re in an epic adventure and you &apos;re told , &quot; we &apos;re going to run out of oil . &quot;
this is a fascinating adventure that you go to .
find out how they would survive . most of our players have stayed in the game .
so for the next world trade game , we &apos;ve got a bigger , higher goal than just oil scarcity .
we &apos;ve developed the game superstruct at the institute for the future .
and the starting point is the calculation of a supercomputer that people only have 23 years left on the planet .
this supercomputer is called the global mortality system of sensitivity , of course .
the call to the player to sign up , we designed almost like a jerry bruckheimer movie .
when they came in 100 species , damn , one of them should have been perfect .
you know jerry bruckheimer movies , where there &apos;s the dream-team . they have the astronauts , the scientist , the ex-beach , and only together can they save the world .
but in our game , instead of just five people , let &apos;s say , everybody &apos;s in the dream-team , and it &apos;s our job to create the future for energy , food , health , security and the future of social justice .
8,000 players played the game for eight weeks .
they found 500 incredibly creative solutions that they can read when they google &quot; superstruct . &quot;
and the last game we bring out on march 3rd , and it &apos;s a game in collaboration with the world bank .
if you close the game , you get the award from the world bank , &quot; social change , &quot; in 2010 .
we work with universities all over sub-saharan africa , and we invite them to learn social redesign .
we have a comic book on it . we have a level high for regional understanding , knowledge , sustainability , vision and ingenuity .
i want to invite you all to share this game with young people all over the world , especially in developing areas that benefit from imagining your own social enterprises to save the world .
i &apos;m going to end now .
and what i got was good , but it wasn &apos;t perfect .
i want to ask you something .
what do you think happens next ?
we have all these fantastic players , we have games that show us what we can do , but we haven &apos;t saved the real world yet .
well , i hope you agree that players are human resources that we can use to work in real life , and that games have a lot of meaning for change .
we have all of these superpowers , happy productivity , the ability to make tight social networks , urgency optimism and the desire for epic meaning .
i really hope that we &apos;re playing significant games together to survive on this planet another century .
and i hope you &apos;ll design and play with me like this .
when i look forward to the next decade , i &apos;m sure of two things : that we can create any possible future , and that we can play all kinds of games .
so i say , let the world &apos;s start games !
thank you .
and so i compared what i had gotten to what i expected , and what i had was disappointing compared to what i expected .
i &apos;d like to tell you something that i noticed a few months ago writing a article for italian wired .
i &apos;ve always had my synonymous dictionary ready when i was writing , but i &apos;ve been done with the process of texting , and i realized that i &apos;ve never looked up in my life , which means the word &quot; disabled &quot; really means .
i &apos;m going to read you the post .
&quot; disabled , &quot; adjectively : &quot; crushed , helpless , useless , destroyed , devastated , wounded , targeted , lawed , separated , served , balanced , impotent , casted , paralyzed , paralyzed , handicapt senil , aged , pulled out of traffic , relieved , done , broken , counted , lacking , useless and weak .
antonym : healthy , strong , powerful . &quot;
i read this list to a friend loud , and i had to laugh , it was so ridiculous , but i just came up to &quot; targeted , &quot; and i couldn &apos;t talk , and i had to stop reading , and i had to start collecting , after this random word , and the interconnected emotional shock .
of course , this was an old synonymous dictionary , and i just thought that the copy must be pretty old .
but in fact , it was a copy of the early &apos; 80s , when i was starting at elementary school and starting to build my self-image outside my family environment and form , in terms of other children and the rest of the world around me .
and thank god i didn &apos;t use a synonymous dictionary at the time .
if i were to take this entry seriously , i would be born into a world that someone like me would perceive as a person whose life can &apos;t be positive in any way , but today i &apos;m being celebrated for the opportunities and adventures i &apos;ve experienced .
so adding opportunities to people &apos;s lives , inevitably , people &apos;s expectations will have about how well these possibilities will be .
so i immediately called up the 2009 online copy , and i expected me to find a more appealing contribution here .
here &apos;s the updated version of this entry .
unfortunately , it &apos;s not much better .
in particular , the last two words under near antonyms are shaking me &quot; all &quot; and &quot; healthy . &quot;
but it &apos;s not just about the words .
you just listen and then you start talking .
it &apos;s about what we think about the people we describe with these words .
it &apos;s about the values that are in these words , and how we construct these values .
our language affects our thinking and how we see the world and the people around us .
a lot of ancient societies , including the greeks and the romans , really believed that the language of a flight has a huge force , because what you &apos;re talking about can also manifest itself .
so , what do we really want to manifest -- a disabled person or a powerful person ?
and this leads to less happiness with the results , even though the results are good .
even calling a human being mindlessly as a child , could be enough to restrict them and overstack them with ideas .
wouldn &apos;t it be more beautiful to open your doors ?
a man who opened doors to me was my pediatrician at the a.i. dupont institute in wilmington in delaware .
it &apos;s called dr. pizzutillo . it &apos;s a italo american whose name , as you can imagine , most americans couldn &apos;t speak correctly , so it &apos;s always called dr. p. .
and dr. p. always wore very colorful flies and was just created for the work of children .
i found the time i spent in this hospital just great -- except for my physical therapy .
i had to repeat individual practices , seemingly infinitely often , with these thick , elastic bands -- in different colors -- you know that to build my leg muscles , and i hated these tapes more than anything else . i hated them . i flooded them . i hated them .
and imagine i &apos;ve even negotiated with dr. p. as a five-year-old child , trying to stop these practices , naturally without success .
and one day , he was watching me in one of my practices -- these practices were just tiring and seamless -- and he said to me , &quot; wow , aimee , you &apos;re such a strong , powerful and young girl , you &apos;re going to tear one day one of these bands .
and if you can do it , i &apos;ll give you a hundred dollars . &quot;
no one in the world of marketing knows this , because if you did , you all wouldn &apos;t know what this is about .
and of course , this was just a simple trick by dr. p. , so i do the practice that i didn &apos;t want to do , with the idea that the richest five-year-old girl in the hospital station in the second floor , but he actually got me to see my daily practice horror with new eyes , and so it became a new and promising experience .
and i wonder today how much his vision of me as a strong and powerful young girl shaped my self-image , and i could think of myself as one of nature of strong , powerful and atlethic human beings .
this is just one example of a lot of how adults in positions of power can prompt the imagination of a child .
but as the examples we &apos;ve already quoted from the synonymous dictionaries , our language doesn &apos;t allow us to imagine something that we would all wish : to allow each and every one to see themselves as powerful people .
our language is about the social change that has been triggered in many cases by a technological change .
and of course , from the medical standpoint , you can say that my legs , the laser surgery for visually impaired , knee from titan and artificial hip joints , which allow people to really use all of their possibilities and across the boundaries that they &apos;ve set their natural destiny to develop , not to speak at all about social networking platforms , that allow people to have their own identity , define themselves in their own way , and navigate around the world to groups that they choose themselves .
so maybe it &apos;s clear that this technological change has ever come to mind that there has always been a different truth , which is that every human being can give something special and very powerful to society , and that the human ability to adapt is our biggest plus .
the human ability to adapt -- this is an interesting story , because people are always asking me to tell you about how i deal with adversity , and i &apos;m going to tell you something : this sentence has never fit for me , and i &apos;ve always felt very uncomfortable answering people &apos;s questions , and i think , gradually , i understand why .
this phrase of dealing with widerness lives on the idea that success or happiness depends on mastering a challenge without being impacted with it , as if my life had been so successful , because i could avoid the possible fall of a life with a prosthetic , or whatever people perceive me with my disability .
but the truth is that we &apos;re changing . of course , we &apos;re shaped by the challenge , whether it &apos;s physical , emotional or even both .
the truth is more like this .
and i &apos;m saying that &apos;s good .
widrives are not an obstacle that we need to embrace in order to deal with our lives better .
adversity just belongs to our lives .
and i tend to think of widerness as my shadow .
sometimes i realize it &apos;s very present , sometimes it &apos;s very little to see , but it &apos;s constantly with me .
and i don &apos;t want to put the impact , or the severe , of the fight of a human .
there are adversity and challenges in life , and they &apos;re just too real , and each person &apos;s going to deal with them differently , but the question is not whether we can deal with them or not , but how we deal with them .
so not only are we responsible for preserving the people we love from fortune , but we also prepare them for getting good at it .
and we don &apos;t like our kids when we give them the feeling that they can &apos;t adapt .
you have to separate two things clearly : for one thing , the medical fact of being amputated , and for the other , the social opinion of whether i &apos;m disabled or not .
the reason is that everything was better than anything was worse than anything was worse than anything was worse , it was possible for people to have experiences that were a pleasant surprise .
and to be honest , the only real and persistent disability that i had to deal with is that the world is constantly saying it can describe me with these definitions .
in our desire to protect the people who care about us and to tell them the cold , hard truth about their medical forecast , or even to put a prediction on the quality of life that they expect , we have to pay attention that we don &apos;t put the ground for someone to actually be disabled .
maybe the concept that we have right now , which is just paying attention to what &apos;s in a broken way , and how we repair that , for each one of us , is a greater disability than pathology itself .
if we don &apos;t treat a human , and we don &apos;t perceive and recognize all of its forces and possibilities , in addition to the natural struggle that you might have to lead , another disease .
we degrade a person who has value for our society .
so we have to look beyond the patology and focus on all of the human possibilities .
but most importantly , there is a connection between the perception of our inadequacy and our great inventive spirit .
we should not deny or deny these challenging times , we should not try to avoid them , nor should we return them under the carpet , but it &apos;s about recognizing the odds of the odds .
it &apos;s more to me , perhaps , to make it clear that we don &apos;t necessarily have to overcome adversity , but that we are open to embrace it , to grab it at the cockroach , to use a fight expression , and maybe even dance with it .
and maybe we can think of widerness as something natural , coherent and useful , and not feel so disgusted by their presence .
today , in the world we live in -- we wealthy , industrialized citizens , with perfection as an expectation -- the best thing you can hope for is that things are as good as you expect them to be .
this year , we celebrate the 200th anniversary of charles darwin , and when he wrote about evolution 150 years ago , darwin , in my view , pointed out something very true in human character .
i would rewrite it this way : not the most powerful of its kind of survival , and not the most intelligent of its kind , but the one who can best adapt to change .
from conflicts , creativity emerges .
not only from darwin &apos;s work , we know that the human ability to survive and flourish is determined by the fight of the human mind to turn through conflict .
so , again , change and adaptation are the greatest skills of human beings .
and maybe we only know what wood we &apos;re cut out of when we &apos;re really being tested .
maybe that &apos;s the sense of widerness , a sense of the me , a sense of our own power .
we can give ourselves something like this .
we can create a new meaning that goes beyond severe times .
maybe we can see vitality as a change .
they &apos;re never going to be surprised because their expectations , my expectations , are homegrown .
adversity is a change that we haven &apos;t adapted to yet .
i think the biggest damage we &apos;ve done to ourselves is to believe that we should be normal .
let &apos;s face it -- who &apos;s normal ?
there &apos;s no normal thing .
there &apos;s the usual one . the typical one . but not the normal one , and would you really want to know this poor , gray person if they really had it ?
i don &apos;t think so .
it would be great if we could change this paradigm of normal versus a different set of possibilities , or strength , to even make it a little bit more dangerous , so we can release the forces of very many children , and invite them to bring their special and valuable skills into society .
anthropolgen has found that we have always challenged people from the members of our society : to be useful and to contribute .
there &apos;s evidence that the neanderthals were carrying older people , 60,000 years ago , and people with severe physical injuries , and maybe that &apos;s because the life experience in the survival of these people was valuable for society .
they didn &apos;t think of these people as broken and useless ; they were treated as something special and valuable .
the secret to happiness -- that &apos;s what they &apos;ve all come to -- the secret to happiness is low expectations .
a few years ago , i went to the city where i grew up in a food market in that red zone in the northeast of pennsylvania , and i was standing there in front of a snapshot tomato .
it was summer , and i had shorts .
and i hear a guy behind me say , &quot; well , that &apos;s not aimee mullins . &quot;
and i turn around and i see this older man . i had no idea who he is .
and i said , &quot; excuse me , sir , we know ? i can &apos;t remember you . &quot;
and he said , &quot; well , you can barely remember me .
when i first saw her , i took her out of her mother &apos;s belly . &quot;
oh , so that one .
and of course , it did click .
this was dr. kean , a man who i knew only from telling my mother about this day , because , of course , i was very typical , two weeks late at my birthday .
i want to say -- a short autobiographical moment -- which i &apos;m married to a woman , and she &apos;s really wonderful .
the doctor for pranatal diagnostics of my mother was on vacation , and so my parents didn &apos;t know the man who brought me to the world at all .
and because i was born without a waking legs , and my feet were focused on them , and i only had a few toes on this one , and a few toes on the other foot , he was the exaggerator , and that stranger had to get the bad news .
he said to me , &quot; i had to tell your parents that you would never walk , and you would never be as moving as other children , or that you could never live an independent life , and since then they just punished me . &quot;
what was really extraordinary to me was that he collected newspaper clips of my entire childhood , whether i &apos;d won in a second class spell , whether i was in the parade with the pepper finders at the parade , whether i had my scholarship or one of my athletic victims , and he used these clips to teach his students , medical students from the hahneman medical school and the hershey medical school .
and he called this part of his course the x factor , the potential of human will .
you just can &apos;t emphasize enough how critical this factor can be for the quality of a human being &apos;s life .
and dr. kean said , he said , &quot; i &apos;ve learned that if you &apos;re not told something else all the time , and even if you get a little bit of support , if you leave children alone , then children can achieve a lot . &quot;
you see , dr. kean has changed his thinking .
he understood that the medical diagnosis , and as someone is dealing with it , is two different things .
and i also changed my thinking over time , if you had asked me , at the age of 15 , if i had swapped my prosthetic legs from meat and bones , then i wouldn &apos;t have been hesitated for a second .
i couldn &apos;t have done better . i didn &apos;t let myself down .
i really wanted to be normal at the time .
if you ask me that today , i &apos;m not so sure .
and that &apos;s because i &apos;ve experienced something with my legs , and not despite these experiences .
and maybe that change could happen because i &apos;ve encountered so many people who have opened doors to me , rather than meeting people who have limited me or wanted to impose an idea .
you see , it really only needs one person to demonstrate to you how to manifest your forces , and they &apos;re through .
if you allow someone to activate their own internal forces -- the human mind is so reception -- if they can do that , and open a door for someone in a critical moment , they &apos;re a very good teacher for these people .
they teach them to open themselves doors .
the real meaning of the word &quot; educate &quot; is rooted in the word &quot; educe . &quot;
it means to produce something that is in one that is tickling out the potential .
again , what potential do we want to call out ?
but it &apos;s not always such a bad thing .
in the &apos; 60s , a case study was done in britain , and at the time , gymnasia was transformed into all schools .
they call this &quot; streaming trials &quot; in the united states , we call this &quot; tracking .
the students are divided by grades .
or , one of the most fascinating tribes i &apos;ve ever lived with , the orani in the northeast of ecuador , an amazing people who was first contacted peacefully in 1958 .
and the a student gets harder to test , get the better teachers and so on .
they then , over a three-month period of students with a &quot; sufficient &quot; the note &quot; very good , &quot; they were told that they were street , they were very smart , and after these three months , they really wrote one .
and of course , it breaks your heart , that the reverse was told to the one-year-olds , they are only sufficient .
and it was the same after the three months .
but only those who were still in school -- aside from the students who had thrown the school .
and the crucial thing about this study was that the teachers were not denied .
the teachers didn &apos;t know that something was changed .
finally , a consequence of buying a bad sitting jeans , if there &apos;s only one way to buy , is that if you &apos;re unhappy , and you &apos;re wondering why , who is responsible , the answer is clear . the world is responsible . what could you have done ?
they were just told that they were the one-year-olds , and they were the students with the grade , and they taught them something and they treated them .
the only real disability is a broken mind that has been broken has no longer hope , and it has nothing more beautiful . it lacks our natural , childhood curiosity , and our innate capacity of imagination .
but if we can continue to support the human mind , to continue to hope for ourselves and other people around us to be beautiful , curious and imaginative , then we really put our forces in a positive way .
if a mind has these qualities , we can create a new reality and new forms of existence .
i want to end with a poem written by a persian poet named hafiz in the 14th century , who my friend jacques dembois told me about . and the poem is called &quot; the god who only knows four words . &quot; &quot; every child knows god , not the god of the name , not the god of the commandments , but the god who knows only four words and repeats it all the time , he always says , &quot; come on , dance with me . &quot;
come on , dance with me . thank you very much .
how would you want to be better than you are right now ?
suppose , through a few changes in your genes , i said , could have a better memory -- more precise , more precise and faster .
or do you want to be more fitter , stronger , have more power .
do you want to get more attractive and more confident ?
if hundreds of different kinds of jeans are available , and they buy one that &apos;s disappointing , and they ask why , who is responsible ?
what would it be like to live longer in good health ?
or maybe you &apos;re one of those who has always been looking for more creativity .
which would you like the most ?
what would you like to have if you could only have one ?
creativity .
how many people would choose creativity ?
raise your hands . let me see .
a few . probably about as many as there are creative people here .
that &apos;s very good .
how many would choose for a good memory ?
it &apos;s also clear that the answer to the question is , you .
a few more .
how about fitness ?
a few less .
what about longevity ?
ah , the majority . i like to see that as a doctor .
if you could only have one of them , it would be a very different world .
is this all just education ?
or is it possible ?
evolution has been a continuous topic here at the ted conference , but today i want to give you the view of a doctor &apos;s point of view .
the great geneticist in the 20th century , t.g. dobzhansky , who was also a communicator in the russian orthodox church , once wrote a paper called &quot; nothing in biology doesn &apos;t make sense except in the light of evolution . &quot;
they could have done better .
now , if you &apos;re one of those who doesn &apos;t accept the proof of biological evolution , this would be a very good time to turn off your listening device , take your personal communications device -- i &apos;ll give you permission -- and maybe you can take a look at kathryn schultz &apos;s book , which is about to be wrong , because nothing else in the course of this talk will make sense for you .
but if you accept biological evolution , consider this : is it just about the past , or is it about the future ?
is it possible for others , or is it true for us ?
this is another look at the tree of life .
in this picture , i put a bush as a center of branches in all directions , because if you look at the edges of the tree of life , all the species that exist on the tips of these branches have had evolutionary success : they have survived ; it has demonstrated fitness and strength in its environment .
the human part of this book , far at the end , of course , is what we &apos;re most interested in .
we branch from a common ancestor to modern chimpanzees about six or eight million years ago .
in this period of time , there were maybe 20 or 25 different species of hominids .
some of them came and left .
we &apos;ve been here for about 130,000 years .
with 100 different kinds of jeans in the window , there &apos;s no excuse for mistakes .
it seems that we are quite remote from the other parts of life &apos;s tree , but in fact , most of the time , the fundamental mechanisms are pretty much the same as our cells .
do you realize that we can take advantage of it and ask the mechanisms of a common bacterium to produce the protein of the human insulin , which is used to treat diabetics ?
this is not like humaninsulin ; this is the same protein that &apos;s chemically undifferent from what comes from the pancreas .
and as we &apos;re talking about bacteria , are you aware that every one of us in our gut leads more bacteria than it does for cells in the rest of our bodies ?
maybe 10 times as many .
i mean , do you think when antonio damasio asks for her self-image , do you think about the bacteria ?
our gut is a wonderfully hospitable environment for these bacteria .
it &apos;s warm , it &apos;s dark , it &apos;s wet , it &apos;s very comfortable .
and you &apos;re going to give them all the nutrients that they just might want without any effort at all .
it &apos;s a really easy way for bacteria , with occasional interruptions of the unintended , jeodd forced to go .
and so , when people make decisions , and even though the results of decisions are good , they feel disappointed , they accuse themselves .
but otherwise , they &apos;re a wonderful environment for these bacteria , just as they are important for their lives .
they &apos;re helping to digest essential nutrients , and they &apos;re protecting them against certain diseases .
but what &apos;s going to happen in the future ?
are we in a kind of evolutionary balance in a species ?
or are we going to be something else -- something that might even be better adapted to the environment ?
now let &apos;s take a step back to the time of the big bang 14 billion years ago -- the earth , the solar system , about four and a half billion years ago -- the first signs of living things , maybe three to four billion years ago on earth -- the first multi-cellular organisms , perhaps as much as 800 or a billion years ago -- and then the human species , which eventually forms in the last 130,000 years .
in this vast unfinished symphony of the universe , life on earth is just briefly measured ; the animal kingdom , like a single touch ; and the human life , a small notation .
that was us .
this also represents the entertainment value of this talk , so i hope you enjoy d .
now , when i was a freshman in college , i had my first biology classes .
clinical depression exploded in the industrial world in the last generation .
i was fascinated by the elegance and beauty of biology .
i fell in love with the power of evolution , and i found something very fundamental : most of the life &apos;s existence in single organisms , each cell divides , and all of the genetic information of the cell is carried on in both of the dead cells .
but at the time , when multi-cellular organisms showed up , things started to change .
sexual reproduction comes into the picture .
and most importantly , with the introduction of sexual reproduction that the genome passes on , the rest of the body becomes desirable .
in fact , you could say that the inevitability of the death of our body is at the same time as the sexual reproduction .
now i have to say , when i was a college student , i thought , okay , sex / death , sex / death , death for sex -- it seemed pretty reasonable at the time , but with every year , it &apos;s come to my increasingly doubts .
i &apos;ve come to understand the feelings of george burns who performed his show in las vegas in the &apos; 90s .
and one night , there &apos;s a knock on his hotel door .
he opens the door .
i think a significant -- not the only one , but a significant contributor to this explosion of depression , and also suicide , is that people have experienced the disappointment because their standards are so high , and then , if they have to explain these experiences , they think it &apos;s their fault .
he &apos;s standing in front of him a beautifully sharp showgirl .
she looks at him and says , &quot; i &apos;m here for super-sex . &quot;
&quot; that &apos;s wonderful , &quot; says george , &quot; i &apos;ll take the soup . &quot;
i came to the realization that i was working on a goal that was different from the goal of evolution -- not necessarily contradictory , just different .
i tried to preserve the body .
i wanted to keep us healthy .
i wanted to restore the health of a disease .
i wanted us to live a long and healthy life .
evolution is all about the passage of the genome to the next generation , adaptation and survival generation after generation .
from an evolutionary standpoint , they and i , like bosters , have evolved rockets to send the genetic questioning to the next stage of the orbit , and then fall into the sea .
and so the imagery is that we &apos;re getting better in general , objective , and we feel worse .
i think we would all understand the mood that woody expressed all when he said , &quot; i don &apos;t want to reach immortality through my work .
i want to do it by not dying . &quot;
evolution doesn &apos;t necessarily mean to prefer the longest life .
it doesn &apos;t necessarily prioritize the biggest , the strongest , or the fastest , and not even the smartest .
evolution prioritizes the creatures that are best adapted to their environment .
it &apos;s just the test of survival and success .
on the bottom of the ocean , bacteria are there that are thermophil , and by doing so , they survive the hot vapor , if fish were there , it would have vacuum cooked fish , but they managed to make a habitable environment for themselves .
so , what does that mean when we look back at what happens in evolution , and how we think about the place of people in evolution , and particularly how we look forward to the next phase , i would say that there are a number of possibilities .
the first is that we &apos;re not going to evolve .
we &apos;ve reached a kind of balance .
so let me remind you .
and the reason for that is that , first of all , we &apos;ve been able to get a lot of genes that would have been selected and been removed from the population .
and second , we , as a species , have configured our environment so that we &apos;ve managed to adapt to them right now and we adapt to them .
and by the way , we &apos;re wandering and circulating and mixing so much that you can &apos;t say that isolation is necessary for evolution to find statement .
a second possibility is that it &apos;s going to be an evolution of traditional species , of course , imposed by the forces of nature .
and the argument here would be that the wheels of evolution are slowly mailing , but they &apos;re inexhaustible .
and so far as the isolation goes , if we colonize planets as a species , there will be isolation and the changes in the environment that evolution could naturally produce .
but there &apos;s a third option , a seductive , fascinating and terrifying possibility .
in 1957 , five missionaries tried to contact and made a severe mistake .
i call it neo-evolution -- the new development that isn &apos;t just natural , but led and decided by us as individual in the decisions that we make .
now , how could this happen ?
how could we be able to do that ?
this is the official dogma , one that we all think is right , is completely wrong . it &apos;s not true .
let &apos;s start by looking at the reality that people today , in some cultures , make decisions about their offspring .
they are , in some cultures , the choice to have more men than women .
it &apos;s not necessarily good for society , but it &apos;s what the individual and the family decide .
so think , if not only could it be possible to choose your child &apos;s gender , but also to pretend genetic adaptations to the body , to cure and prevent the disease .
what if you could make the genetic changes to eliminate diabetes or alzheimer &apos;s disease or eliminate cancer risk or stroke ?
wouldn &apos;t you want to make these changes in your genes ?
if we look forward , these kinds of changes will be increasingly possible .
the human genome project started in 1990 , and it took 13 years .
it cost 2.7 billion dollars .
the following year , when it was done in 2004 , they could do the same thing for 20 million dollars in drone to four months .
there &apos;s no question that &apos;s a little bit better than no choice , but it doesn &apos;t follow that more choice is better than something .
today , you can complete a sequence of the three billion base pairs of the human genome at a price of about 20,000 dollars and in the space of about a week .
it &apos;s not going to take a long time for the reality to be that there will be the 1,000 dollars of human genomes , and it will be more and more available for everybody .
a week ago , the national academy of engineering gave the draper prize for francis arnold and willem stemmer , two scientists who developed independently the natural process of evolution to work faster and lead to desirable proteins in an efficient way -- which frances arnold calls &quot; direct evolution . &quot;
a few years ago , the laser prize was awarded to the scientist shinya yamanaka for his research in which he took a grown-up skin cell , a fibroblaste , and by manipulating only four genes , the cell , to incentivize it back to a pluripotent stem cell -- a cell is potentially able to become any cell in your body .
these changes are coming .
the same technology that the human insulin produces in bacteria can make viruses that can not only protect itself , but can also serve immunity to other viruses .
whether you believe it or not , it &apos;s an experimental study in the gang with vaccine against influenza that &apos;s been grown in the cells of a tobacco plant .
can you imagine something good coming out of tobacco ?
this is all reality today , and in the future , it &apos;s going to be much more possible .
and then just imagine two other small changes .
there &apos;s a magical amount . i don &apos;t know what it is .
you can change the cells in your body , but what if you could change the cells of your descendants ?
what if you could change the sperm and eggs or the fresh fertilized egg to give your children a better chance for a healthier life -- eliminating diabetes , eliminating the hemophility , reducing the risk of cancer ?
who doesn &apos;t want healthier children ?
and then the analytical technology , the same engine of science that can enable the changes to prevent disease , could also enable us to adopt super-attributes , hyper-capacity -- the better memory .
why not have the capability of a ken jennings hben , especially if you can expand it with the next generation of the watson machine ?
why not have the fast muscle fibers that will allow you to run faster and longer ?
why no longer live ?
these will be irresistible .
and if we &apos;re in a place where we can pass it on to the next generation , and we can adopt the attributes that we want , we will be transformed from the old style of evolution to neo-evolution .
we &apos;re going to have a process that &apos;s usually going to take 100,000 years , and we can compress it to a thousand years -- and maybe even the next 100 years .
i &apos;m pretty sure that we &apos;ve missed that dot for a long time , where choice improves our public good .
these are decisions that your grandchildren have to deal with , or your grandchildren .
do we use these decisions to form a society that &apos;s better , that &apos;s more successful , that &apos;s more friendly ?
or will we selectively choose different attributes that we want to have for some of us , and not for others of us ?
are we going to be a society of diligence and uniform , or robuster and more diverse ?
these are the kinds of questions that we need to face .
and most deeply of all , are we ever going to be able to develop the wisdom , and master the wisdom that we &apos;re going to need to make these decisions ?
in the good or in the bad , and in the old days , when you might think , these decisions are going to be up to us .
thank you .
i want you to imagine something now , a portable robot that gives you superhuman skills , or another one that helps wheelchair users to stand up and go back .
at berkeley bionics , we call these robots exoskeletons .
now , as a rule of question -- i &apos;m almost done -- as a rule of question , the issue of thinking about this is , what enables all of these choices in the industrialized societies , the material is wealth .
they &apos;re not more than something that they &apos;re putting on in the morning and that will give them extra strength and that will continue to increase their speed and that will help them keep their balance .
this is , in fact , the real melting of human and machine .
but not only that -- they merge and connect with the universe and other devices out there .
it &apos;s not just a crazy idea .
now , to show you what we &apos;re working on , we &apos;re starting to talk about the american soldier , who &apos;s on average wearing about 100 pounds on his back , and it &apos;s a request that you should have more equipment .
of course , this leads to some major complications -- spinal injury , 30 percent of it -- chronic spinal cord injury .
so we thought that we would embrace this challenge and create an exoskeleton that would help deal with this problem .
so let me introduce you now to hulc -- or the human universal load carrier .
soldier : with the hulc exoskeleton , i can carry 200 pounds of different terrain for many hours .
his flexible design enables you to go deep , crawl , and execute highly agile movements .
there are many places in the world , and we &apos;ve heard about many of them whose problem is not the big choice .
it feels what i want to do , where i want to go and then increase my strength and persistence .
we &apos;re so far as to imagine this device with our industrial partner , this new exoskeleton this year .
so it &apos;s true .
so let &apos;s take a look at the wheelchair drivers , something that i &apos;m particularly passionate about .
there are 68 million people who are sitting in the wheelchair worldwide .
that &apos;s about one percent of the population .
and that &apos;s actually a conservative estimate .
we &apos;re often talking about very young people with spinal cord injury , who were in the flower time of their lives -- 20s , 30s , 40s -- who were hit by fate , and the wheelchair is the only option .
but it &apos;s also about the aging population whose number is multiplied .
and pretty much the only option -- when it comes to a stroke of the brain , or other complications -- is the wheelchair .
their problem is they have too little .
and so , by the way , it &apos;s been for 500 years since he , as i have to say , very successful introduction .
so we thought we could start writing a whole new chapter in mobility .
now let me introduce you to elegs , which is carried by amanda boxtel , who suffered a spinal cord injury 19 years ago , which resulted that she couldn &apos;t walk for 19 years now .
thank you .
as i said , amanda carries our elephant .
it has sensors .
his completely non-invasive sensors in the crutches that send signals back to our onboarding computer that &apos;s attached here on your back .
here are also batteries , and the engine engine is on its hips , as well as on its knee joints that move them forward in this pretty smooth and very natural gangway .
i was 24 years old , and in the best form , when a monstrous purple tree was paralyzing me in a ski ride .
in the fraction of a second , i lost every feeling and every movement below my basin .
so the things i &apos;m talking about are a strange problem of modern , rich , western societies .
not long after that , a doctor went to my hospital room , and he said , &quot; amanda , you &apos;re never going to be able to go back . &quot;
and that was 19 years ago .
he &apos;s stealing every five hope from my consciousness .
adaptive technologies have allowed me to learn , to ski again , to climb and even ride with my hands .
but nothing was invented that would let me go , so far .
thank you .
as you can see , we have the technology , we have the platforms to meet and discuss with them .
it &apos;s in our hands , and we have all the potential here to change the lives of future generations -- not just for the soldiers , or for amanda here and all the wheelchair drivers , but for everyone .
thank you .
at home in new york , i &apos;m the head of the development department of a nonprofit organization called robin hood .
and what &apos;s so frustrating and angry is , steve levitt told you yesterday about how this expensive and hard to install car seats don &apos;t help . it &apos;s a waste of money .
if i don &apos;t fight poverty , i &apos;m fighting as a fireman with a volunteer deletion on fire .
now , in our town where volunteers supported a highly skilled professional fire department , you have to be in the fire spot pretty early to be able to interfere .
i remember my first fire .
i was the second volunteer in the burn place , so i had quite good opportunities to be able to go in .
but it was still a race against the other volunteers to reach the responsible headman and find out what our tasks would be .
when i found the main man , he had a very serious conversation with the owner who certainly had one of the worst days of her life .
it was in the middle of the night , and she was standing in the pajamas and barefoot under a screen outside in the streaming rain while her house was in flames .
the other volunteer who had just arrived in front of me -- let &apos;s call him lex luther -- first reached the main man and was asked to go to the house and save the owner &apos;s dog .
the dog ! i was a linguistic envy .
there was some lawyer or wealth stewards who could now tell for the rest of his life , that he went to a burning house to save a living thing , just because it was five seconds faster than i did .
what i &apos;m telling you is that these expensive , complicated decisions -- it &apos;s not easy that you don &apos;t help .
well , i was the next .
the main man would wave me up .
he said , &quot; bezos , you have to go to the house .
you &apos;ve got to go up , you &apos;ve got to go up on the fire , and you &apos;ve got to get some shoes to this woman . &quot;
i swear it .
they threw shiny photos of themselves out of the air , which we would rate as a friendly gesture , and they forgot that these people from the rainforest in their lives had never seen anything two-dimensional .
now , not exactly what i hoped for , but i went up -- the stairs up , the hallway , the &quot; real &quot; firemen , who were already quite done with the deletion , in the bedroom to get a few shoes .
i know what you &apos;re thinking , but i &apos;m not a hero .
i wore my prey back to the bottom where i met my enemy at the front door and the beloved dog .
we carried our estimates out to the owner of the house , where , not surprisingly , he got a lot more attention than mine .
a few weeks later , the fireman &apos;s guard received a letter from the owner &apos;s owner , where she thanked for the brave use to save her house .
they &apos;re even hurting .
one of the things that &apos;s been estimated is kindness : somebody had actually put a pair of shoes on it .
both in my robin hood profession and in my side profession as a volunteer fireman , i &apos;m witnessed by generosity and kindness on a large scale , but i also see the actions of the charity and the mute of individuals .
and you know what i learned ?
they &apos;re all important .
so when i look around this room and i see people who have either achieved a remarkable success or are on their way there , i want to offer the following memory : don &apos;t wait .
don &apos;t wait to make a difference in somebody else &apos;s life until they &apos;ve reached their first million .
if you have something to give , you give it now .
in a soup kitchen , clean up a park in the neighborhood .
be a mentor .
not every day will give us a chance to save a person &apos;s life , but every day gives us a chance to change one .
they make us feel worse about it .
so go ahead and save the shoes .
thank you .
bruno guissani : mark , mark , come back .
thank you .
i &apos;m just coming back from a community that knows the secret of the progression of humanity .
a place where women are leading the recipe , with sex , saying hello , and the game determines the day -- where fun is a serious issue .
and no , it &apos;s not burning man or san francisco .
ladies and gentlemen , their relationships .
this is the world of wild bonobos in the congo urbanium .
bonobos are together with chimpanzees our closest living relatives .
if something from what enables people in our society to make such decisions to the societies in which people would have shifted too little choice , not only would it improve people &apos;s lives , but also our dignity improved .
that means we have a common ancestor , an evolutionary grandmother who lived about six million years ago .
now , chimpanzees are known for their aggressivity .
but unfortunately , we &apos;ve overemphasized this aspect in the narrative of human evolution .
but bonobos show us the other side of the medal .
while chimpanzees are led by big , scary , scary guys , the bonobo society is led by empowered females .
they &apos;ve really come up with something , because that leads to a very tolerant society where lethal force has not been seen before .
but unfortunately , bonobos are least known among the primates .
they live in the deep depths of the congolese urbanium forest , and they &apos;re very hard to observe .
congo is a paradox -- a country of extraordinary biodiversity and beauty , but also the heart of darkness itself -- the scene of a violent argument that has been ravaging for decades and has asked almost as many lives as the first world war .
it &apos;s not surprising that this destruction also threatens the survival of the bonobos .
economists call this a pareto improvement application .
meat trade and the decline in the canopy causes you to not even fill a stadium with your remaining bonobos -- and even there we are not sure to be honest .
and yet , in this country of violence and chaos , you can hear a hidden laugh that the trees are shocking .
who are these relatives ?
we know them as &quot; love instead of war &quot; monkeys , because they have more , they also have bisexual sex , they have changing partners , they have rules of conflict and social issues .
i &apos;m not saying that &apos;s the answer to all the humanitarian problems -- because the life of the bonobos is more than the cama sutra .
bonobos -- like people -- love to play their lives .
play is not just child games .
for us and she , play is essential for connecting relationships and caring for tolerance .
and we learn trust and the rules of the game .
play enhances creativity and resilience , and it &apos;s all about generating diversity -- diversity of interactions , diversity of behaviors , diversity of connections .
income distribution is going to make everybody better -- not just the poor -- because all this big choice is plaguing us .
and if you look at bonobos in the game , you see the evolutionary origins of human salmon , dance and rituals .
play is the ticket that keeps us together .
now , i don &apos;t know how they play , but i want to show you some unique footage straight from the wild .
first of all , a ball game in bonobo -- and i don &apos;t think of football .
so here &apos;s a young female and male in a chase game .
look at what she &apos;s doing .
this could be the evolutionary origin of , &quot; it grabs it in the eggs . &quot;
just that i think he likes it more , right ?
yeah !
so sex games are common , both in bonobos and in humans .
finally , read this cartoon , and , a sophisticated person , says , &quot; ah ! what does this fish know ?
and this video is really interesting , because it shows -- and this video is really interesting , because it shows the ideal wealth in which you bring new elements into play -- like the testicles -- and also , how the game both demands and promotes trust -- while at the same time , it &apos;s incredibly fun .
but the game is a shape-shifter .
play is a shape-shifter , and it can take many forms , some of which are a little bit quieter , imaginative -- maybe to rediscover the astonishing .
and i want to show you , this is fuku , a young female , and she plays peacefully with water .
i think , just as they play , we sometimes play alone , and we expose limits to our inner and outer worlds .
and it &apos;s this playful curiosity that makes us explore , and interact , and the unexpected linking that we form are the real nutritional ground of creativity .
this is just a little taste of the insights that bonobos give us into our past and our present .
but they also have a secret to our future , a future where we need to adapt to increasing challenges , through greater creativity and printing , cooperation .
the secret is that the game is the key to these skills .
in other words , play is our adaptation joker .
you don &apos;t know anything possible in this goldfish glass . &quot;
in order to successfully adapt to an unstable world , we have to play .
but are we going to make the best of our play drive ?
play is not silly .
it &apos;s essential .
for bonobos and people alike , life is not made of teeth and claws alone .
just when it seems hardly appropriate , play is perhaps the most necessary .
and so , my primate comrades , let &apos;s embrace and play this gift of evolution , while we rediscover the creativity of the camera and the wonder .
thank you .
i want you to imagine two pairs , in the middle of 1979 , exactly the same day , at the same moment , every single baby -- okay .
so two pairs , each one of them is a baby .
impoverished imagination , a short-sighted view of the world -- and that &apos;s the way i first read it .
now , i don &apos;t want you to spend too much time imagining the creation , because , if you think of it all the time , you &apos;re not going to listen to me .
just imagine that for a moment .
and in this scenario , imagine that , in a case , the sperm carries a y chomosom hitting the x chromosome of the egg cell .
and in the other case , the sperm carries a x chromosome hitting the x chromosome of the egg cell .
both of them are survivable , both of them are lit .
we &apos;re still coming back to these people later .
in most of my activities , i have two hats .
under a hat , i &apos;m looking at the history of anatomy .
i &apos;m a trained historian , and in this case , i study how people handled anatomy -- that is , human bodies , animal bodies -- how they handled body fluids , with body concepts , how they thought about bodies .
the other hat that i &apos;ve worn in my work is the activist , as a patient lawyer -- or , as i sometimes say , as an impatient lawyer -- of people who are patients of doctors .
but the more i thought about it , the more i thought the fish knew something .
in this case , i worked with people who have body types , who question social norms .
so for example , i worked with people who are siamesian twins , two people in a body .
i worked with people with dwarfs -- so people who were smaller than usual .
and very often , i &apos;ve been working with intersexual people whose gender is atypical -- so people who don &apos;t have the average male or female body types .
and as a general term , we can use the word &quot; intersexuality . &quot;
intersexuality is in many different forms .
i &apos;m just going to give you a few examples of the possible types of gender variants that are not the male or female standard .
in a case , you might have somebody with an xy chromosome base , and the sry gene of the y chomosoms is the protogonads that we all have in fetal stadium , growing up .
and that &apos;s why the testosterone testosterone is in the fetal stadium .
but because this individual is missing the receptors to recognize the testosterone , the body is not responding to the testosterone .
because the truth is , if you break down the goldfish glass , so everything is possible , you don &apos;t have freedom . you have paralysis .
and this is called androgenic receptor defect .
so a lot of testosterone , but no reaction to that .
as a consequence , the body develops more of the typical female trajectory .
when the child is born , she looks like a girl .
they took these photographs from the forest floor , tried to see behind the face or the character , and they concluded that these were business cards of the devil , and they killed the five missionary with the spear .
she &apos;s a girl . she &apos;s raised as a girl .
but most of the time she reaches puberty and her breasts grow and develop , but she doesn &apos;t get her period until someone comes to the fact that there &apos;s something different here .
and they do some tests , and they find that instead of ovarian sticks and uterus , they actually carry testicles and have a y chromosome .
and it &apos;s important to understand that you could actually think of this person as male , but they &apos;re not really .
women , like men , have something in our bodies called adrenaline glands .
they &apos;re in the back of our body .
if you break the goldfish glass , so everything is possible , you reduce happiness .
and the side ones make androgens , which are virilizing hormones .
most women , like me -- i think being a typical woman -- i don &apos;t know my actual chromosomes , but i think i probably have the typical -- most women like me actually talk about androgenic .
we make androgen , and we respond to androgens .
the consequence is that someone like me actually has a brain that was exposed to more genes than a woman who was born with testicles and has an androgenic receptor defect .
so gender is really complicated ; intersexuals are not just in the middle of the spectrum of gender -- in a sense , they can be spread across the bandwidth .
another example : a few years ago , i got a call from a 19-year-old man who was born a boy , raised as a boy , had a friend , had sex with his girlfriend , lived as a man , and he had just found that he had eggs and a uterus .
he had an extreme form of an innate side cattle hyperbubble .
he &apos;s got xx chromosome , and in the womb , his side kidneys were so active that they basically created a male hormone environment .
and as a consequence , his genitaly male was exposed to the typical male part of the hormone spectrum .
and when he was born , he looked like a boy -- no one knew anything .
they increase paralysis and reduce happiness .
and only when he was 19 years old did he get enough medical problems , in fact , because he was menstruing inside , the doctors found out that he was female inside .
okay , just a quick example of a version of intersexuality .
some people with xx chromosomes , they develop something called ovotestis , where the ovarian tissues are surrounded by testicular tissues .
we don &apos;t know exactly why this is happening .
so gender can occur in many different varieties .
the reason why children with this kind of body -- whether it &apos;s dwarf or siamesian twins , whether it &apos;s intersexual -- are often adapted to the norm , is not because it would be advantageous for their physical health .
in many cases , these people are perfectly healthy .
the reason why they &apos;re often presented with different kinds of surgical interventions is because they threaten our social categories .
typically , our system is based on the idea that a certain anatomic proposition is going to be with a certain identity .
so we have the concept that being a woman is to have a female identity , to be a black person , which is , supposedly , to have an african anatomy in terms of its own story .
everybody needs a goldfish glass .
so we have this terribly simplistic idea .
and when we &apos;re faced with a body that is actually something very different to us , we &apos;re confused with that in terms of these categorizations .
so we have a lot of romantic ideas in our culture about individualism .
and our nation is really based on a very romantic concept of individualism .
now , you can imagine how amazing it is when children are born , who are two people in a body .
where i had seen most of my excitement lately , the south african runner caster semenya last year , whose gender was challenged by the world cup leichatlethique in berlin .
a lot of journalists called me on the question , &quot; what are you going to do that tells us whether caster semenya is female or male ? &quot;
and i had to explain to the journalists that there &apos;s no test .
we now know that gender is complicated enough that we have to admit that nature doesn &apos;t draw a line for us between male and female , or between male and intersexual and female and intersexual , and tactile , we are the one that makes this line as natural .
so we have this situation where , as our science continues , we have to admit more , that these categories that we thought were stable anatomic categories that made very simple assignments to create permanent identity categories are much more unsharper than we thought .
this is almost confined with complete security -- possibly for the fish , definitely for us .
and that &apos;s not just about gender .
it &apos;s also true in terms of race , which turns out to be much more complicated than our terminology has approved .
in our views , we get into all sorts of inconvenient areas .
for example , we &apos;re finding the fact that we have at least 95 percent of our dna with chimpanzees .
what should we do with the fact that we &apos;re different from them just by a few nucleotides ?
as we push our science further and further , we &apos;re getting into a zone of discomfort , where we have to recognize that the simplistic categories that we probably had are too simple .
we see this in all sorts of different areas of human life .
one of the areas that we see this in the beipiel , in our culture today , in the united states today , are the fighting over the beginning and the end of life .
we have difficult conversations about where a body becomes human , so that it has a different right than fetal life .
we have very difficult arguments today -- maybe not as public as in medicine -- about the question of when someone is dead .
but being a metaphorical goldfish glass is a recipe for misery , and , i suspect , disaster .
our ancestors had never had that hard to fight with the question of when someone was dead .
they &apos;ve been holding a feather under their nose , and when it moved , they haven &apos;t buried it yet .
if it didn &apos;t move , you &apos;ve buried it .
but today we &apos;re in a situation where we take people &apos;s vital organs and want to plant them to other people .
and as a result , we get caught in the fight with the really difficult question of when someone is dead , and that brings us into a really difficult situation where we don &apos;t have as simple categories as we used to .
now you might think that the whole collapse of categories would make someone like me really happy .
i &apos;m progressive politically , i defend people with unusual bodies , but i have to admit , it makes me nervous .
to understand that these categories are really much more insecure than we thought , i &apos;m excited .
and it makes me excited about democracy in terms of consideration .
so to tell you about this tension , i have to first know that i &apos;m a big fan of the founding fathers .
thank you very much .
i know they were racists , i know they were sexists , but they were great .
i think they were so brave and strong , and so radical , in what they were doing , every few years , i &apos;ve been able to look at the maltzy musical 1776 , and it &apos;s not because of the music that is absolutely forgotten .
it &apos;s because of what happened in 1776 with the founding fathers .
the founding fathers , from my point of view , were the original anatomic activists , and that &apos;s why .
what they showed back was an anatomic concept , and they replaced it by another one that was radically radical and beautiful , and 200 years for us to scale .
as you all remember , our founding fathers rejected the concept of monarchy , and the monarchy was basically based on a very simplified concept of anatomy .
the rulers of the old world had no concept based on the dna , but they had a concept of birth rights .
they had a concept of blue blood .
they were the notion that people who had political power should have these political power , because of the inherited bloodline from grandfather to son and so on .
the founding fathers showed this idea back and replaced it through a new anatomic concept , and this concept said that all humans were created equally .
you know , i &apos;ve talked about some of these projects before , about the human genome and what that might mean , and about the discovery of new groups of genes .
they nivellized the play field , and they decided that anatomically , the commonalities matter , not the differences . and that was very radical .
now , they did this in part because they were part of an enlightenment system where two things grew up together .
democracy grew up , but at the same time , science also grew .
if you look at the story of the founding fathers , it &apos;s clear that many of them were very interested in science , and they were interested in a concept of a naturalistic world .
they went away from explanations of supernatural ways , and they showed things like a supernatural concept of power , where the transmission is based on a very vague concepts of birth law .
they moved to a natural concept .
and if you look at , for example , the declaration of independence , they talk about nature and the god of nature .
they don &apos;t talk about god and the nature of god .
they talk about the power of nature to tell us who we are .
and as part of that , they gave us a concept that was about anatomic commonalities .
in fact , we &apos;re starting from a new point : we &apos;ve digitized biology , and now we &apos;re trying to get from the digital code into a new phase of biology by designing and building new life .
and so , in a really wonderful way , they &apos;ve prepared the future civil rights movement .
they didn &apos;t think about it that way , but what they did for us was great .
so what happened years after that ?
for example , women who were trying to make the right to vote , the concept of the founding fathers , which says that anatomic commonality is more important than the anatomic difference , and said , &quot; that we have a uterus and eggs is not significant enough that we should not have the right to vote , the right to have a full citizenship , the right to own right , etc . , etc . &quot;
and women argued that successfully .
the next one came the successful civil rights movement , where we saw people like sojourner truth , who were talking about it , &quot; am i not a woman ? &quot;
we find men in the marching rows of the citizenship movement saying , &quot; i &apos;m a man . &quot;
again , people of different skin color , which appeal on anatomic commonalities before anatomic differences , again , successful .
we see the same thing in the disabled legal movement .
of course , the problem is that , and we start to look at all the similarities , we have to start to question why we sustain certain separations .
we &apos;ve always tried to ask significant questions .
now , notwithstanding , i want to sustain certain separations , anatomically , in our culture .
for example , i don &apos;t want to give a fish the same rights as a human .
i don &apos;t want to say that we should take away from the anatomy .
i don &apos;t want to say that five year-olds should be right to give their consent to sex or to marry .
so there are some anatomic separations that make sense to me , and that we should , i think , keep .
but the challenge is to try to figure out which ones are , and why we keep them , and whether they &apos;re meaningful .
so let &apos;s go back to these two creatures that have been named at the beginning of the talk .
we &apos;ve got two creatures , both in the middle of 1979 , exactly the same day .
so let &apos;s imagine that one of them , maria , three months earlier , was born , so she &apos;s born on june 1 , 1980 .
heinrich , on the other hand , is born to the birthday , so he &apos;s born on march 1 , 1980 .
what is life ? it &apos;s something that i think many biologists have tried to understand , and it &apos;s at different levels .
just because of the fact that maria was born three months prematurely , she acquired all sorts of rights three months before heinrich -- the right to have engaging sex , to choose the right to drink the right .
heinrich has to wait for all of this , not because he actually has a different biological age , just because of the time of his birth .
we find other oddities about what their rights are .
heinrich , since you assume that he &apos;s male -- although i didn &apos;t tell you he &apos;s the xy -- because you assume he &apos;s male , he can now be brought in what maria doesn &apos;t have to worry about .
but the waorani didn &apos;t just kill outsiders with the spear .
whereas maria , in all states , can &apos;t perceive the same right that heinrich has in all states , and that is the right to marry .
heinrich can marry a woman in every state , but maria can only marry a woman in a few states today .
so we have these permanent anatomic categories that are problematic and questionable in many ways .
and for me , the question is : what are we going to do , because our science makes such advances in the anatomy area , that we have to reach a point where we have to admit that a democracy based on anatomy could fall apart ?
i don &apos;t want to give up the science , but at the same time , sometimes it feels like science is self-sufficient .
so where do we go ?
we tried different approaches to simplify it down to the minimal components .
it seems that our culture is taking a kind of pragmatic posture : &quot; well , we have to pull a line somewhere , so we pull it somewhere . &quot;
but a lot of people get caught in a very strange position .
so , for example , texas at a point decided that marrying a man means you don &apos;t have a y chromosome , and marrying a woman means you have a y chromosome .
now , in practice , people are not being tested on their chromosome .
but it &apos;s also very bizarre , because of the story i told you about the androgenic receptor defect at the beginning .
if we look at one of the founding fathers of modern democracy , dr. martin luther king , he offers us in his &quot; i have a dream &quot; a kind of solution .
he says we should not judge people by &quot; their skin color , but by the characteristic of their character , &quot; and go beyond anatomy .
and i want to say , &quot; yeah , that sounds like a really good idea . &quot;
but how do you do that in practice ?
how do you judge people because of their characteristics ?
we &apos;ve digitized almost 20 years . when we sequenced the human genome , the shift from the analog world of biology to the digital world of computers .
i also want to point out that i &apos;m not sure that we should distribute rights to people like this , because i have to admit that i know a series of golden retriever that probably deserve social benefits rather than some people i know .
i want to say that i probably know some bright label dogs , who are more capable of making more intelligent and richer decisions about their sexual relationships than some 40-year-old i know .
so how are we going to operate the question of the character ?
it turns out to be really difficult .
and part of me wondered , what if the content of a personality was something that would be machine readable in the future -- could be made visible with fmri ?
do we really want to go this way ?
i &apos;m not sure where we &apos;re going .
what i know is that it really seems to be important to think about the idea that the united states is leading in thinking about democracy questions .
in our efforts for democracy , we did a really good job , and i think we would do well in the future .
we don &apos;t have the situation , as it is in iran , for example , where a man who is sexually drawn to other men is punished with death , unless he &apos;s prepared to undergo a sexual transformation , in which case he &apos;s allowed to stay alive .
now we &apos;re trying to ask , can we regenerate life , or can we create new life , from this digital universe ?
these kinds of states don &apos;t exist with us .
i &apos;m happy to say that we don &apos;t have these states -- a surgeon that i talked to a few years ago , who had brought a few siamesian twins to separate them , partly to make a name .
but when i was talking to him , and i asked him why he did these interventions -- it was high-risk surgeries -- his answer was that in his country , these children would be treated very badly , and so he had to do it .
i said , &quot; well , did you consider political asyl instead of having surgery to separate it ? &quot;
we go through initiation rituals .
the united states provides incredible opportunities to allow people to be who they are without having to change the state &apos;s will .
so i think we need to be leaders .
well , just to conclude , i want to realize that i &apos;ve talked a lot about the fathers .
and i want to think about the possibilities of what democracy might look like , or if we had more involvement in mothers .
and i want to say something that for a feminist is a little bit radical , and that is that i think there might be different kinds of insights that govern different kinds of anatomy , especially when people apply group thinking .
for years , because i &apos;ve been interested in intersexuality , i &apos;ve also been interested in research in gender differences .
this is the map of a small organism , mycoplasma geitalium , which has the smallest genome of a species that can replicate itself in the lab , and we &apos;ve tried to do that with an even smaller genome .
and one of the things that i found really interesting is the difference between men and women in terms of how they think and operate in the world .
what we &apos;ve learned from cross-cultural studies is that women , on average -- not each , but on average -- tend to be more complex social relationships and the caring for people who are vulnerable within the group , are very much to pay attention .
and so , when we think about it , we have an interesting situation in front of us .
years ago , when i was a graduate student , one of my graduate students asked me , who knew my interest in feminism -- i looked at myself as a feminist , and i still do -- a really curious question .
he said , &quot; tell me what &apos;s female about feminism . &quot;
and i thought , &quot; well , that &apos;s the stupidest question i &apos;ve ever heard .
feminism is about solving stereotypes about gender , so feminism is not female .
but the more i thought about his question , the more i thought there could be something female in feminism .
that is to say , there could be something , on average , which makes women &apos;s brains different from male brains , which makes us more interested in highly complex social relationships , and more attention to the protective needs .
so , where the founding fathers were extremely suspicious of how individuals could be protected from the state , it &apos;s possible that if we brought more mothers into this concept , we would get more of a concept , not just how to protect each other , but how to care for each other .
we &apos;ve managed to get about a hundred genes from the 500 or something that &apos;s here .
and maybe it &apos;s where we need to go in the future , when we execute democracy over anatomy -- to think less about the individual body in terms of identity and think more about relationships .
so that , as people , when we try to make a more perfect connection , we think about what we can do for each other .
thank you .
i &apos;m jessi , and this is my suitcase .
but before i show you what i have in it , i &apos;m going to make a very public confession , and that &apos;s : i &apos;m obsessed with outfits .
i love to find , at every chance , a different colorful , crazy outfit , and also to photograph and blog .
but i don &apos;t buy anything new .
i get all my clothes from my second hand on flowing markets and second-hand shops .
ooh , thank you .
second-hand shopping allows me to reduce the impact of my garderobe on the environment and also the money market .
but if we look at this metabolic map , which is very simple , compared to ours . trust me , that &apos;s simple . but if we look at all these genes that we can eliminate one after the other , it &apos;s very unlikely that this would lead to a living cell .
i meet all sorts of great people ; my dollars usually serve for a good purpose ; i look pretty unique ; and it makes shopping for my own personal shattering .
i mean , what am i going to find today ?
will it be my size ?
am i going to like the color ?
will it cost less than 20 dollars ?
if all the answers were loud , i feel like i won .
i come back to my suitcase , and i tell you what i packed for this exciting week at ted .
i mean , what does anybody bring in so many outfits ?
so i &apos;m going to show you exactly what i brought with me .
i brought seven underpants with me , and that &apos;s all .
so we decided that the only way forward is to actually synthesize this chromosome , which allows us to vary the individual components and ask some of these fundamental questions .
underpants for exactly one week are all i did in my suitcase .
i woke up that i would find anything else i might want to wear if i came to palm springs first .
and since you haven &apos;t heard of me as the woman who &apos;s walking around here at ted in her underwear -- that means i &apos;ve found a few things .
and i really want to show you my outfits this week .
does that sound good ?
as i do that , i &apos;m also going to give you some of the lessons that i , believe it or not , have learned from these adventures not to wear anything new .
let &apos;s start with sunday .
i call this the bright tiger .
you don &apos;t have to spend a lot of money looking great .
you can almost always look great for less than 50 dollars .
and so we started with the question , can we synthesize a chromosome ?
this whole outfit , including the jacket , cost me 55 , and it was the most expensive piece that i was wearing all week .
monday : color is something powerful .
it &apos;s almost physiologically impossible to be miserable when you &apos;re wearing bright red pants .
if you &apos;re happy , you attract other happy people .
tuesday : adaptation is totally overrated .
i spent a lot of my life trying to be myself , and also adapting at the same time .
just be who you are .
if you surround yourself with the right people , you &apos;re not just going to understand it , you &apos;re going to appreciate it .
wednesday : embrace your inner child .
sometimes people say to me , i look like i &apos;m dressing , or i &apos;m going to remind you of your seven-year-old .
does it enable the chemistry to make these really large molecules , which has never been done before ?
i like to smile and say , &quot; thank you . &quot;
thursday : self-confidence is the key .
if you think you look good , it &apos;s almost safe .
and if you think you don &apos;t look good in something , you &apos;re probably right .
i grew up with a mother who taught me the day after day .
but it wasn &apos;t until i turned 30 that i really understood what that means .
and i &apos;m going to wrap this up for you for a second .
if you think you &apos;re inside and outside a wonderful person , there &apos;s nothing you can &apos;t wear .
so there &apos;s no excuse for someone in this audience .
we should be able to rock everything we want .
and if we can do that , can we start the chromosome ?
thank you .
friday : a universal truth -- five words : golden pailers fit everything .
and finally , saturday : developing a unique , personal style is a great way to tell the world something about you without having to say a word .
it was proven to me over and over again , when people came to me this week , just because of what i was wearing , and i had great conversations .
obviously , it &apos;s not going to fit everything in my tiny suitcase .
so before i go home to brooklyn , i &apos;m going to donate all this again .
because the lesson i &apos;m trying to learn this week is that it &apos;s okay to let go .
they drilled through each other .
i don &apos;t have to emotionally arrest these things , because right around the corner , there will always be another crazy , colorful , radiant outfit , waiting for me if i have a little love in my heart and searching for it .
thank you very much .
thank you .
a chromosome , by the way , is just a piece of informed chemical material .
good afternoon , everybody together .
i &apos;ve got something here that i want to show you .
think of this as a picture , as a flying point of view .
that &apos;s what we call perceptual design in our lab .
let me tell you a little bit about this .
now , if you take this picture -- i &apos;m originally italian , and every boy in italy grows up with this picture in his room , but the reason i &apos;m showing you this is because something very interesting happened in the formula 1 in the past few decades .
some time ago , if you wanted to win a formula one race , you took your budget and you put your money on a good driver and a good car .
and if the car and the driver were good enough , they won the race .
now today , you need , if you want to win a race , you actually need something like this -- something that &apos;s monitoring the car in real time , has a few thousand sensors , the information from the car , pass that information on to the system , and then process it , and then use it to send that car back and change things in real time as information is collected .
this is what you would call a real-time control system in engineering teams .
our steps in digitizing life were exponential .
and basically , it &apos;s a system that &apos;s made of two parts -- a sentient part and a reacting part .
what &apos;s interesting today is the real-time control systems are starting to emerge in our lives .
our cities , in the last few years , have just been equipped with networks and electronics .
they become free computers .
and as a computer in the open , they start to react in a different way , they &apos;re perceived and driven .
when we make cities , it &apos;s actually a big deal .
just by the way , i want to mention that cities are only two percent of the world &apos;s land , but 50 percent of the world &apos;s population is there .
they &apos;re 75 percent of the energy consumption -- they &apos;re up to 80 percent of the co2 emissions .
so if we do something with the cities , it &apos;s a big deal .
beyond the cities , all this perceive and drive into objects of everyday life .
our ability to write genetic code has evolved very slowly , but it &apos;s still increased , and our last point would now be on an exponential curve .
this is from an exhibition organized by paola antonelli for moma later in the year , during the summer .
it &apos;s called &quot; talk to me . &quot;
now , all of our objects , our environment , start talking to us back to us .
in a certain sense , it &apos;s almost as if every atom out there becomes both , a sensor and a driver .
and that radically changes the interaction that we humans have out there with our environment .
in a way , it &apos;s almost as if the old dream of michelangelo ...
you know , when michelangelo shaped the moses , it means that he ended up taking the hammer and throwing it on moses -- in fact , you can still see a little bit of an untender -- and said , &quot; perché non parli ? why don &apos;t you say ? &quot;
now , today , our environment , for the first time , begins to respond to us .
i &apos;m just going to show you a few examples -- again , with the idea of perceiving and pushing our environment .
let &apos;s start with the perception .
we started this 15 years ago .
now the first project i want to show you is actually one of the first of our labs .
it happened four and a half years ago in italy .
and what we did was actually use a new kind of network that was used all over the world -- this is a mobile phone network -- and using anonymous and aggregated information from this network that &apos;s oftentimes collected from the operator to understand how the city works .
the summer was a happy summer -- 2006 .
it was when italy won the football world cup .
some of you will remember , it was when italy played against france , and then at the end of the zidane , the head push .
and anyway , italy ended up winning .
now look at what happened that day , just watching the activity that happens in the network .
here you see the city .
you see in the middle the colosseum , the tiber .
it actually took a few years to start with a bioethical review before we did the first experiments .
in the morning , before the game .
you see the timeline up there .
early afternoon , people here and there , making calls and moving .
the game starts -- silence .
france makes a gateway . italy makes a gateway .
half-time , people make a short call , go to the bathroom .
second half-time . end of the normal play time .
first extension , second extension .
zidane , in a moment of headrest .
italy wins . yeah .
it turns out that dna synthesization is very difficult .
well , that night , everybody went to the center to celebrate .
they saw the big impact .
the next day , everybody went to the center to meet the team of winning and the prime minister at the same time .
and then everybody went down .
you see the picture of the place about co massimo , where , since the roman time , people have been going to celebrate -- to have a big party , and you see the impact at the end of the day .
now , this is just one example of how we can feel the city today , in a way that we couldn &apos;t do it a few years ago .
but very quickly , another example of emotion : this is not about people , this is about things that we use and consume .
well , today we know everything about where our things come from .
this is a map that shows you all the chips that make up a mac computer , how they came together .
but we know very little about where things go .
there are tens of thousands of machines around the world that can make small pieces of dna , 30 to 50 letters long , but it &apos;s a degenerative process , so the longer you make a piece , the more mistakes happen .
so in this project , we actually designed some little markers to track the garbage as it goes through the system .
so we started with some volunteers who helped us , a little over a year ago , in seattle , to tag the things that they threw away -- different kinds of things that you can see -- things that you would throw away anyway .
then we put the little chips , the little brands , on the garbage , and we started tracking it .
here are the results that we just got .
from seattle ...
after a week .
with this information , we realized that there are a lot of inefficient things in the system .
we can actually do the same things with less energy .
the data wasn &apos;t available before .
but that happens a lot of unuseful transportation and complicated things .
so we had to develop a new way of putting these little bits together and correcting the mistakes .
but the other thing is that we believe that every day , when we see the cup that we throw away , it doesn &apos;t just disappear that it &apos;s still somewhere on the planet .
and the plastic bottle that we throw away every day is still there .
and if we were to show that to people , we can make a change in behavior .
so that &apos;s the reason for this project .
my colleague at mit , assaf biderman , could tell you much more about perceiving , and the many other wonderful things you can do with perceiving , but i &apos;d like to talk about the second part that we were discussing at the beginning , and that &apos;s the emphasis of our environment .
and the first project is something we did a few years ago in zaragoza , spain .
it started with a question by the mayor who came to us and said that spain and southern europe have a beautiful tradition to use water in public places as part of architecture .
and the question was : how could you connect technology , new technology , with it ?
and one of the ideas that was investigated at mit in a workforce was , imagine these tubes , and valves , magnet valves , that open and close .
they make something like a water curtain with points of imagery from water .
this was our first attempt , starting with digital information , the genome phi x 174 .
if these images fall down , they can write on them , they can display patterns , images , text .
and you can approach him , and he &apos;s going to open up to jump through them , as you can see in this picture .
well , we introduced the mayor belhole .
he loved it very much .
and we got the mission to design a building at the entrance of the expo .
we called it the digital water pavillion .
the whole building was water .
there are no doors or windows , but if you approach it , it will open and let it go .
the roof was also covered with water .
and if it &apos;s windy , if you want to reduce the syringes , you can actually let the roof down .
it &apos;s a small virus that kills bacteria .
or you could close the building and the whole architecture , like in this case , you know , this day , when you drive down the roof , you get pictures of people who were there and say , &quot; you &apos;ve destroyed the building . &quot;
no , they didn &apos;t destroy the building , it &apos;s just that architecture almost disappears .
here &apos;s how the building works .
you see the person who &apos;s wondering what &apos;s going on inside .
54 percent of the deaths happened through drilling .
and here you can see me trying to test the sensors that opened the water , not getting wet .
now , i should tell you what happened one night when all the sensors stopped working .
but in fact , that night , it was an even greater fun .
all the zaragoza children came to the building , because the way they played with the building was very different .
no longer a building that would open up to let them go , but a building that still had breaks and holes in the water , now you had to jump without getting wet .
and that was , for us , very exciting , because as architects , engineers , as designers , we always think about how people , use the things that we design .
we made little pieces , we made a error correction , and we had a dna molecule of about 5,000 letters .
but the reality is always unpredictable .
and that &apos;s the beauty of creating things that are used and interacting with people .
so here &apos;s a picture of the building with the physical imagery , the data points of water and the projections on it .
and this is what got us thinking about the following project that i &apos;m going to show you now .
imagine those images could really start to fly .
imagine if you could have little helicopters flying through the air , and each of them with a little clip of changing light -- almost like a cloud that can move through the room .
here &apos;s the video .
imagine a helicopter , like the one you saw earlier , that moves with others , completely synchronized .
you can have this cloud .
you can have a kind of flexible screen or display like this -- a similar formation in two dimensions .
the exciting phase came when we took this piece of informed chemical and put it in a bacterium , and the bacteria started reading the genetic code and made viral particles .
or unregularly , in three dimensions , where what changes is the light is not the position of the images .
they can play with different species .
imagine if the screen could just appear in different formats or sizes , in different resolution .
but then the whole thing could be just a 3d cloud of images that you can go and move through , that you can look from many , many directions .
here you see a real flyfire-controlling , which is falling down to form like a common v before .
when you turn on the light , it looks like this . so , as we &apos;ve seen before .
imagine that every single human being is controlled .
it could have a impulse that comes from people , from people &apos;s movements or so on .
i want to show you something here first .
we &apos;ve worked with roberto bolle , one of the best ballet dancers of our time -- the étoile at the metropolitan theater in new york and the scala in milan -- we &apos;ve taken his movements in 3d to use them as a impulse for the flyfire .
the viral particles were then released by the cells and came back and killed e. coli .
here you see roberto dancing .
on the left-hand side , you see the images , the different prisoners &apos; impressions .
it &apos;s at the same time a real-time 3d scan and a motion recording .
so you can understand the whole movement .
you can do that all the time .
but then once we have all the imagery , you can play with it and play with color motion and motion of gravity .
we want to use that as a possible impulse for the flyfire .
i want to show you the latest project that we &apos;re working on .
it &apos;s something we work on for the london olympics .
it &apos;s called the cloud -- the cloud .
i talked to the oil industry recently , and they said they were doing this model .
and the idea is , again , imagine this , that we reconnect people with to do something and to change the environment -- almost as we call it , to build a cloud movement , as you move a scheme , but with a cloud .
imagine that anyone can give a little donation to a picture point .
i think that the remarkable thing about the past few years , the last decade , is that we &apos;ve moved from a physical world to a digital world .
that &apos;s all digitized , knowledge , and it &apos;s making it available through the internet .
today , for the first time -- and the campaign of obamas has shown this -- we can move from the digital world , from the self-organizing forces of networks to the physical world .
this can be , in our case , that we use it to design it and create a symbol .
that means something that &apos;s built in the city .
but tomorrow , to face the challenges that are coming -- think about climate change or co2 emissions -- then how can we change from the digital world to the physical ?
so the idea is that we actually engage the people in which they &apos;re doing things together , collectively .
the cloud is again a cloud of points of images , in the same way that a real cloud is a cloud of particles .
they laughed more than you do here .
and these particles are water , while our cloud is a cloud of images .
it &apos;s a physical form in london , but covered with points of imagery .
you can move inside and have different kinds of experiences .
you can actually look at it from the bottom , share the most important moments for olympics in 2012 and beyond , and use it as a kind of connection to the community .
so both of these , the physical cloud in the sky , and something at the top you can go , like london &apos;s new mountain summit .
you can go in .
and a kind of digital light bulb at night -- but most importantly , a new kind of experience for anyone who wants to go to the top .
thank you .
as an artist , i &apos;m very interested in the context .
in my work , i try to express that people are not separate from nature and that everything is connected .
so we think that this is a situation where software can actually build its own hardware in a biological system .
the first time i was in antarctica , almost 10 years ago , where i saw my first iceberg .
i was struck by awe .
my heart raced , i was dizzy as i was trying to grab what was in front of me .
the iceberg around me was racing about 60 meters out of the water , and i could only wonder that this was a snowflake on another snowflake , year after year .
iceberg is born as a calf of a glacier , or by breaking out of ice sheets .
each iceberg has its own individual personality .
they &apos;re clearly interacting with their environment and their experiences .
some people refuse to give up and clamp to the bitter end , while others don &apos;t stop and collapse in a dramatic passion .
if you look at an iceberg , it &apos;s easy to think that they &apos;re isolated , separated and alone , as we often see people .
but the truth is far from it .
but we wanted to go a lot further . we wanted to build a whole bacterial chromosome . it has more than 580,000 letters of genetic code . so we thought , we build it in cassette tapes of the size of the virus , which we could variate the size of the cassette tape to understand what the individual components of a living cell are .
as an iceberg melts , i breathe its pre-time atmosphere .
as the iceberg melts , it releases mineral metabolic drinking water that feeds many forms of life .
i pretend in my footage of these iceberg as if i make portraits of my ancestors , knowing that they exist in these individual moments of this way , and never will exist again .
it &apos;s not a death when you melt ; it &apos;s not an end , but it &apos;s a progression of your path along the life cycle .
part of the ice in the iceberg that i &apos;m photographing is very young -- a few thousand years old .
and part of the ice is more than 100,000 years old .
the last images i &apos;d like to show you are a iceberg that i photographed in kekertsuatsiak in greenland .
very rarely you &apos;re actually witnessing a rolling iceberg .
here you can see it .
on the left , you see a little boat .
design is the key , and if you want to start with digital information in the computer , this digital information really has to be miserable .
that &apos;s about five meters long .
please pay attention to the shape of the iceberg , and where it is on the waterline .
you can see here , he &apos;s starting to roll , and the boat &apos;s moved to the other side , the man &apos;s standing there .
this is the average size of a greenland iceberg .
it &apos;s about 120 feet from the water , or 40 meters .
and this video is real time .
and just like that , the iceberg shows you a different side of its personality .
thank you .
my life is really extraordinarily blessed by working on some amazing projects .
but the coolest thing i &apos;ve ever worked on is this guy .
when we first sequenced the genome in 1995 , the error rate was a 10,000 base pairs error .
his name is tempt .
tempt was one of the leading graffiti artists in the &apos; 80s .
then one day , he came back from walking , and he said , &quot; dad , my legs cribble . &quot;
and that was the outbreak of the thing .
tempt is completely paralyzed today .
he can only use his eyes .
i was facing him .
i have a company that makes design and animations , so graffiti is inevitably a complex part of what we admire and pay attention in the art world .
so we decided to support tony -- tempt -- and support his thing .
i met with his father and his brother , and i said , &quot; we &apos;re going to give you this money .
we found 30 errors in the resort , and if we had used the original sequence , it would never have been possible to go up .
what are you going to do with it ? &quot;
and his brother said , &quot; i just want to talk to tony again .
i just want to talk to him again , and i said , &quot; wait a minute , isn &apos;t that -- i &apos;ve seen stephen hawking -- can &apos;t all the paralyzed people communicate with these devices ? &quot;
and he said , &quot; no , only if you listen to the higher social layer and you have a remarkable insurance , you can really do that .
ordinary people are not available to these devices . &quot;
we followed geneaology eight generations back , and we found two cases of a natural death , and when we asked people a little bit about it , they admitted that one of the people had gotten so old that he died because of his age , and we killed him with the spear .
and i said , &quot; well , how do you communicate ? &quot;
did anybody see the movie &quot; butterfly and diving bell ? &quot;
this is how they communicate -- this is how their fingers walk along .
i was like , &quot; very archaic , how can this be ? &quot;
so i came up with the need to just put out a check , and instead i put out a check that i didn &apos;t have the slightest idea of how to fix it .
part of the design is to create pieces that are 50 letters long and that have to overlap with other 50-letter pieces to build smaller sub-units to fit them together .
and i was committed to his brother and his father -- in the words , &quot; well , my proposal is this : tony &apos;s going to talk , we &apos;re going to get him a device , and we &apos;re going to find a way that he can do his art again .
because it &apos;s a farce that somebody who &apos;s carrying all this stuff can &apos;t communicate it . &quot;
so i spoke at a conference a few months later .
i met these guys from grl , graffiti research lab , and they have a technology that allows them to project a light on any surface and then draw with a laser pointer on it , which is just registering the negative surface .
so they go around and they make art installations like this .
they say that all the things that are being shown up there are going to follow a life cycle .
it starts with the genital parts , and then the bad words come , and then the bush publishing , and finally , people actually do art .
but there was always a life cycle in their presentations .
so i went home and i ate with my wife at night , and i told her about everything , and we thought , &quot; well , second , if there &apos;s this technology that you can use your eyes to control things , we should find a way to speed a laser , so that he can do graffiti again , that would be brilliant . &quot;
that was the beginning of the journey .
we &apos;ve put unique elements in here .
and about two years later , about a year later , after a lot of organization and a lot of things , we &apos;ve done some things .
first of all , we got the insurance to the doors , and we actually got a device for tempt to communicate with -- a stephen hawking machine .
that was incredible .
and he &apos;s really extremely funny -- i call him yoda , because you talk to him , or you get an email , and you &apos;re like , &quot; i &apos;m so unworthy , this guy &apos;s incredible . &quot;
also , we &apos;ve flown seven programmers from all over the world -- literally from all the corners of the world -- home to us .
my wife , my children and i have moved to the garage , and these hackers and programmers and conspiracy theorists and anarchists have taken over our house .
many of our friends thought that we were pretty stupid to do that , and that we came back , and all the images on the walls would be weighed graffitis .
but for more than two weeks , we programmed , we went to the beach promenade in venice , my kids got involved , my dog , and we created this .
it &apos;s called eyewriter , and you can see the description .
this is a cheap sunglasses that we bought on the venice beach promenade , some copper wire , and a few things from the construction market and the electronics trade .
you may have heard that we built watermarks .
we took a ps3 camera , we took it apart , we put it on a led light , and now we have a device that &apos;s free -- you can build it yourself , we put the code for free , you can download the software for free .
so we &apos;ve created a device that is completely free of limitations .
no insurance can be made .
no hospital either .
now , any paralyzed one can actually communicate or draw with his eyes alone .
thank you .
thank you very much , that was incredible .
so at the end of the two weeks , we went back to tempt &apos;s room .
i love this picture , because it &apos;s somebody else &apos;s room , and that &apos;s his room .
now there &apos;s all this fame in front of the great unveiling .
think about it : we have a four-letter code : a , c , g and t .
and after over a year of planning , two weeks of programming , nudelparties and gone through , tony drew for the first time after seven years .
and this is an amazing picture , because this is his life support system , and he looks beyond his life support system .
we &apos;ve got his bed tied up so he can see out .
we set up a projector against a wall of the parking lot in front of the hospital .
and he drew again for the first time , in the beijing of his family and friends -- and you can only imagine what a sense that was in the parking lot .
now , funny enough , we also had to break into the parking lot , so we felt right as part of the spray scene .
at the end of the day , he sent us an email with the content , &quot; for the first time in seven years , i &apos;ve drawn something .
i feel like i was pushed underwater , and finally , somebody grabbed down and pulled up my head so i can breathe . &quot;
isn &apos;t that overwhelming ?
this is something like our fight .
triplets of these letters -- these letters encode about 20 amino acids ; and there &apos;s a single purpose for each of these amino acids .
that keeps us up and lets us evolve .
and we still have to improve a lot of this device .
it &apos;s an amazing device , but it &apos;s the same with a magic chart .
and someone who has such an artistic potential deserves so much more .
so we &apos;re trying to figure out how to make it better , faster and stronger .
since that time , we &apos;ve gotten all sorts of recognition .
we won some prices .
remember , it &apos;s free , none of us deserve it .
it all comes from our own pockets .
so the awards were , &quot; oh , that &apos;s fantastic . &quot;
so we can use the genetic code to write our words , phrases , thoughts .
armstrong twitter about us and then in december , we were honored by time-magazine as one of the 50 best inventions in 2010 , which was really great .
the coolest thing about it is -- and this includes the whole circle -- that this april , when moca hits the inner city of los angeles , there will be an exhibition called &quot; art of the streets . &quot;
and there will be pretty much the hardest representatives of the street art scene there -- banksy , shepard fairey , caws -- all these guys will be there .
tempt is going to be part of the show , which is pretty abundant .
so basically , what i &apos;m thinking about is , if you see something that &apos;s impossible , then make it possible .
everything in this room was impossible -- this stage , this computer , this microphone , the eyewriter -- everything was impossible at some point .
make it possible -- all of you here .
i &apos;m not a programmer , and i &apos;ve never had anything to do with generalization technology , but i just captured something and surrounded myself with amazing people so that we could put something on the legs together .
and that question should be , every single day , every single one of you should ask yourself something that needs to be done , if not now , when ? and if not me , who then ?
thank you .
at first , we just signed up .
so , i write for children , and i &apos;m probably america &apos;s most of the time in the book of children .
and i always tell people that i don &apos;t want to get there like a scientist .
you can have me as a farmer , or you can have me in leather , but no one has ever chosen farmers .
today i want to tell you about circles and revelations .
well , an epiphany is usually something that you find because you dropped it somewhere .
you go around the block and you take it as an epiphany .
this is a painting of a circle .
one of my friends did it -- richard bollingbroke .
it &apos;s the kind of complicated circle that i want to tell you about today .
my circle started back in the &apos; 60s at high school in stow , ohio , where i was the classroom gay .
some people were disappointed that it was not poetry .
i was the one who was beaten every week in the virgins &apos; toilet green and blue until a teacher saved my life .
she saved my life by letting me use the toilet in the classroom .
that &apos;s what she did .
she did it for three years .
and i had to go out of town .
i had a thumb , i had 85 dollars , and it hit me to san francisco in california -- i found a lover -- and then in the &apos; 80s , i found it important to do a job with aids organizations .
about three or four years ago , i got a phone call from this teacher in the middle of the night , woman post , who said , &quot; i have to see you .
i &apos;m sad that we &apos;ve never met each other as adults .
can you please come to ohio , and please come together with the guy that i know you &apos;ve found him .
and i should mention that i have pancreatic cancer , and that i want you to please hurry . &quot;
we built the pieces so that we could just decompose them with enzymes , and there are enzymes that repair them and repair them .
well , the next day we were in cleveland .
we looked at her , we laughed , we cried , and we knew she had to be in a hospice .
we found one for them , we took them , and we took care of them , and we gave eight to their family , because it was necessary .
it was something we knew to do .
and just as the woman who wanted to meet me as an adult , met me , she turned into a box of ash and was put in my hands .
what happened was that the circle had closed , it had become a circle -- and the revelation i talked about .
the revelation is that death is part of life .
she saved my life , and my partner and i were saving her life .
and you know , this part of life needs everything that the rest of life needs .
he needs truth and beauty , and i &apos;m so glad that this was mentioned so often today .
and we started to create pieces , starting with pieces that included five to seven thousand letters , and then we added them together to make 24,000-letter pieces to put them back together , up to 72,000 .
he needs the same -- he needs the love and the pleasure , and it &apos;s up to us to give these things .
thank you .
imagine a big explosion as you go up to 1,000 meters .
but at the same time , they had a clear knowledge of the forest that was amazing .
imagine an airplane full of smoke .
imagine a power station , the clap , clap , clap , clap , clap , clap , clap , clap , clap .
that sounds frightening .
well , i had a unique place that day ; i was sitting on 1d .
i was the only one who could talk to the airplanes .
so i looked at them right now , and they said , &quot; no problem , we might have caught some birds . &quot;
the pilot had already turned the machine , and we weren &apos;t that far away .
in each step , we produced these pieces in the surplus so that we could sequence them , because we tried to create a very robust process of what you &apos;re going to see in a minute .
you could see manhattan .
two minutes later , three things happened at the same time .
the pilot built the machine after the hudson river .
it &apos;s not usually the route .
it turns off the power plants .
imagine a soundless airplane .
and then he said three words -- the most emotional words i &apos;ve ever heard .
he says , &quot; make it available for the jump . &quot;
i didn &apos;t have to talk to the border .
i was able to see it in her eyes , there was horror , there was life at the end .
we tried to get to the point of automation .
now i want to share with you three things that i learned about myself that day .
i learned that in a moment everything is different .
we have this plan of life , we have these things that we want to do in life , and i thought of all the people i wanted to reach a hand , and i didn &apos;t do it , all the fences i wanted to flick , all the experiences i wanted to do , and i never did .
as i was thinking about it later , i came up with a phrase that says , &quot; i &apos;m collecting bad wine . &quot;
because if the wine is so far and the person is there , i open it up .
i never want to move any more in life .
and that urgency , that goal , has really changed my life .
the second thing i learned that day -- and that was , when we were missing the george washington bridge , pretty much around hairstyles -- i thought , boy , there &apos;s one thing that i really regret .
i had a good life .
in my own humanity and with my mistakes , i was trying to get better in everything i attacked .
so , this looks like a basketball playoff .
but in my humanity , i also gave my ego space .
and i regretted the time i wasted for meaningless things , with people who mean something .
and i thought about the relationship with my wife , to friends , to people .
and after that , when i thought about it , i decided to ban negative energy from my life .
it &apos;s not perfect , but it &apos;s much better .
i no longer argued with my wife for two years .
it feels great .
i &apos;m not trying to be right anymore ; i &apos;m deciding to be happy .
the third thing i learned -- and that is , as the internal clock begins , &quot; 15 , 14 , 13 , &quot; count down .
you see the water coming .
when we get to these really big pieces -- over 100,000 base pairs -- they &apos;re not just going to grow in e. coli . it &apos;s going to exceed all the possibilities of modern molecular biology , and so we turned to other mechanisms .
i said , &quot; please fly into the air . &quot;
i don &apos;t want this thing to break into 20 parts , as you know from documentaries .
while we &apos;re falling down , i had this sense of dying human , it &apos;s not terrifying .
almost as if we &apos;re preparing for it all of our lives .
but it was very sad .
i didn &apos;t want to go ; i love my life .
and that sadness really formed in a thought , which is that i just wish one thing .
i just wish i could see my kids growing up .
about a month after that , i visited my daughter -- first graders , not much artistic talent ...
... not yet .
we knew about a mechanism of homologous recombination that biology uses to repair dna that can assemble those pieces .
and i celebrate , i cry like a little kid .
and in the world , everything made sense for me .
i realized at the time , by connecting the dots , that life is all about being a great father .
more than anything , everything else , my only goal in life is to be a good father .
i became a miracle part of not dying that day .
i got another gift , which is to look into the future , and come back and live differently .
my call to all of you who fly today is , imagine the same thing happening on your flight -- please don &apos;t -- but imagine it ; and how would you change ?
what would you do that you &apos;re going to push up because you think you &apos;re there forever ?
how would you change your relationships and the negative energy in it ?
and more than anything , are they the best parents they can only be ?
here &apos;s an example of it . there &apos;s an organism called deinococcus radiodurans , which is three million rays of radiation .
thank you .
the idea behind the stuxnet computer worm is actually quite simple .
we don &apos;t want iran to build the bomb .
the most important post there for the development of nuclear weapons is the uranium incentive facility in natance .
the gray boxes that you see here are real-time control systems .
now , if we can combine the systems that control rotations and valves , we can actually cause a lot of problems with the centrifuge .
these gray boxes don &apos;t run with windows software ; they &apos;re based on a completely different technology .
but if we can get an effective windows virus on a laptop that &apos;s used by a warning engineer to configure this gray box , we &apos;re in the business .
and this is the planning behind stuxnet .
so we &apos;re going to start with a windows dropper .
you see in the upper field that his chromosome is just falling apart .
the usage data is transferred into the gray box , damaging the centrifuge and the iranian nuclear energy program is delayed -- commissioning .
this is a child &apos;s game , right ?
i want to tell you how we &apos;ve figured that out .
when we started our research on stuxnet six months ago , it was completely unknown what the purpose and purpose of this construction was .
the only thing that we knew is very , very complicated in terms of the windows part , the dropper-part , he made the countless cero-day- day-weak use .
and it seemed to have something to do with these gray boxes , these real-time control systems .
this attracted our attention , and we started a lab project where we infected our environment with stuxnet , and we looked at this structure .
and then something weird happened .
stuxnet was like a lab rat that didn &apos;t like our cheese -- sniffed it , but didn &apos;t want to eat it .
it didn &apos;t make sense in my eyes .
12 to 24 hours later , it all came back together as it was .
and after experimenting with different kinds of cheese , i realized this is a targeted attack .
completely focused on a particular goal .
the dropper is actively arguing on the gray box when a special configuration was discovered , even when the special program that &apos;s trying to infect it on this goal .
and if not , stuxnet doesn &apos;t do anything .
so , this really got my interest , and we started working with it , almost around the clock , because i thought , well , we don &apos;t know what the goal is .
it could , say , be a u.s. power station , or a chemical plant in germany .
so we should find out better soon what the goal is .
so we extracted and decommissioned the attack code , and we found that it &apos;s structured in two digital warheads -- a smaller one and a bigger one .
and we also noticed that they were very professionally constructed by people who obviously had all the insider information .
they knew all the bits and bytes that they had to attack .
we have thousands of organisms that can do that .
they probably even knew the size of the machine operator &apos;s shoes .
so they knew everything .
and if you &apos;ve already realized that the stuxnet dropper is complex and high-tech , let me tell you , the user data is a science for yourself .
it &apos;s much more sophisticated than anything we &apos;ve ever seen .
here you see an excerpt from this attack code .
we &apos;re talking about -- about 15,000 lines of code .
it looks pretty much like old-fashioned assembler language .
and i want to tell you how we were able to get smart from this code .
so what we were looking for first was system-functioning calls , because we know what they &apos;re doing .
and then we looked for timers and data structures and tried to connect them to the real world -- with potential goals in the real world .
these organisms can be completely dry , they can even live in the vacuum .
so we needed theories about these goals that we could prove or disprove .
in order to make these theories , let &apos;s recall that it &apos;s definitely high-quality sabotage , it has to be a high-quality goal , and it &apos;s very likely to be in iran , because that &apos;s where most infections have been reported .
well , there are not several thousand goals in this area .
it &apos;s basically going out to the bookstore nuclear power plant and the uranium incentive plant in natance .
so i said to my assistant , &quot; get me a list of all the experts for centrifuge and power plants from our client &apos;s tribe . &quot;
and i called them up , and i tapped their knowledge to compare their expertise to what we found in the code and in the data .
their hunters could smell the urine of an animal from 40 steps away and determine which animal species of this animal was owned .
and that worked very well .
so , we were able to connect the little digital warhead to the rotor control .
the rotor is this moving part within the centrifuge , this black object that you see .
and when you manipulate the speed of this rotor , you &apos;re actually able to crack the rotor , and eventually even let the centrifuge explode .
i &apos;m absolutely sure that life can exist and move in space , looking for aquatic conditions .
what we &apos;ve also found is that the goal of the attack was actually to make it happen slowly and astonishingly -- obviously in the attempt to have warning engineers desperate , so that they wouldn &apos;t be able to get behind it quickly .
the big digital warhead -- we got a glimpse by looking at very precisely data and data structures .
so , for example , the number 164 is very sticking out of this code ; you can &apos;t overlook it .
i started working through scientific literature on how these centrifuges are built in natance , and i found that they &apos;re structured in what we call cascades , and each cascade contains 164 centrifuges .
so that made sense , it fit together .
and it got even better .
these centrifuges in iran are divided into 15 so-called levels .
and guess what we found in the attack code ?
a almost identical structure .
so again , that was really good together .
in fact , nasa has shown that there &apos;s a lot of this out there .
and this gave us a lot of confidence for what we &apos;re looking at here .
now , don &apos;t get me wrong , it didn &apos;t just go like that .
these results have been achieved by several weeks of hard work .
and often we ran into a dead end , and we had to recollect ourselves .
anyway , we found that both digital warheads were actually heading for the same goal , but from different directions .
the little warhead takes over a cascade , and it turns over the rotors and slows them down , and the big warhead comes in with six cascades interacting and manipulates valves .
so , by and large , we &apos;re very confident that we &apos;ve actually determined what the goal is .
it &apos;s nateness , and it &apos;s just nateness .
so we don &apos;t have to worry that other goals could be hit by stuxnet .
here &apos;s something really cool that we discovered -- it really blew me out of the socks .
here &apos;s an added shot of the molecule that we made using these processes -- actually , we just used hefty mechanisms with the right design of the pieces , and then we added them automatically .
you can see the gray box down there , and you can see the centrifuge on the top .
now , what this thing does is it captures the value of sensors -- so , for example , of printing sensors and vibrational sensors -- and it provides legitimate code that &apos;s still going on during the attack , with false data .
and in fact , this false data from stuxnet is already recorded before .
so it &apos;s just like in hollywood movies , where , during the chase , the surveillance system is fed with pre-recorded video footage .
that &apos;s cool , isn &apos;t it ?
the idea here , obviously , is not just overlisting the machine operators in the control room .
in fact , it &apos;s much more dangerous and aggressive .
the idea is to overcome a digital security system .
we need digital security systems where a human machine operator can &apos;t respond fast enough .
so in a power station , for example , if the big steam turbine becomes too fast , you have to open up deposit valves within milliseconds .
this is not a scanning electron microscope , it &apos;s a regular microscope .
of course , this can &apos;t be done by a human machine leader .
so at this point , we need digital security systems .
and if they &apos;re at risk , really bad things can happen .
the power plant can explode .
and not the machine leaders , nor the security system will notice it .
this is scary .
but it gets worse .
and what i &apos;m saying now is very important .
think about it . this attack is generic .
it has nothing to do with centrifuge , with uranization .
it &apos;s such a big molecule that we can even see it with the light microscope .
so , for example , it would work just as well -- in a power station or in a car factory .
it &apos;s generic .
and you don &apos;t have to -- as the attacker -- you don &apos;t have to put the user data on a usb stick , as we &apos;ve seen at stuxnet .
you could also use ordinary worm technology to spread .
you just have to spread as far as you can .
and when you do that , you end up with a cybermass destruction weapon .
this is the consequence that we have to face .
so unfortunately , the biggest number of goals for these attacks is not in the middle east .
they &apos;re in the united states , europe and japan .
so all these green areas , these are the most targeted environments .
this is footage over six seconds .
we have to face the consequences , and we start to prepare for ourselves better .
thank you .
i have a question .
ralph , there was a lot of reports that people assume that the mossad is the main organization behind it .
is that your opinion ?
okay , you really want to know that ?
yeah . okay .
in my opinion , the mossad is involved , but the driving force is not israel .
so the driving force behind this is cyber superpower .
there &apos;s only one , and these are the united states -- luckily , fortunately .
this is the publication that we just recently completed .
because otherwise , our problem would be even bigger .
thank you for chasing us a fear of heating . thank you ralph .
i &apos;ve spent the last few years trying to place myself in situations that are usually very difficult and at the same time kind of dangerous .
i went to jail -- hard .
i worked in a coal mining -- dangerous .
i filmed in war areas -- difficult and dangerous .
and i spent 30 days eating nothing but this -- fun at the beginning , a little bit difficult in the middle , very dangerous at the end .
in fact , i &apos;ve spent most of my career looking for terrible situations , and all of this just trying to do is study social belonging that they are engaging and interesting , and hopefully understand in a way what makes them fun and accessible to the audience .
so when i knew i was going to come here to look at the world of branding and sponsoring in a tedtalk , i knew i was going to do something a little different .
some of you may have heard that a few weeks ago i turned on an ad on ebay .
this is over 580,000 letters of genetic code , which is the largest molecule with defined structure ever created by humans .
i sent out some facebook messages , some twitter messages , and i gave people the opportunity to get the name rights at my tedtalk 2011 .
really , some happy people and companies , for-profit and non-profit , got the unique opportunity -- because i &apos;m sure chris anderson will never let that go -- to buy the name rights of the talk that you &apos;re just seeing , who didn &apos;t have a title or a lot of content , at that point , and not a lot of evidence of what the subject would be .
so what you got was this : your name presented here : my tedtalk , which you have no idea what the subject is going to be , and which could ever fly you around your ears after content , especially if i let your company stand for your participation dumb .
but besides that , it &apos;s a very good media opportunity .
you know , how many people look at these tedtalks ?
a lot .
this is just the titles of labor , by the way .
so despite that warning , i knew that anybody would buy the name rights .
now , if you had asked me this a year ago , i wouldn &apos;t have been able to tell you this with certainty .
but in the new project that i &apos;m working on , my new film , we &apos;re looking at the world of marketing , the advertising .
it has a molecular weight of over 300 million .
as i said , over the years , i went into some pretty horrible situations , but nothing could prepare me , nothing could utilize me , to go to anything as difficult and as dangerous as this guy in a room .
you know , i had the idea for a movie .
what i want to do is make a film around product placement , marketing and advertising , where the whole film is funded by product placement , marketing and advertising .
and the movie will be called &quot; the greatest movie ever sold . &quot;
so what happens in &quot; the greatest movie ever sold &quot; is that everything from the top to the bottom , from the beginning to the end , is completely packed with brands -- from the front sponsor that you &apos;re going to see in the movie , that &apos;s the brand x .
now this brand , the qualcomm stadium , the stairs center ...
these people will be connected to the movie in time -- forever .
and so the movie will study this whole idea -- this is what ? in eternity , forever ?
i &apos;m a redundant person .
that was more to emphasize .
if we were to print it with a 10-page and without a distance , it would encompass 142 pages , just to print this genetic code .
it was &quot; in eternity , forever . &quot;
but we &apos;re not just going to have the x as a front sponsor , but we &apos;re going to make sure that we &apos;re going to sell every category we can get in the movie .
so we might sell a shoe , and it will be the greatest shoe you &apos;ve ever worn ...
the greatest car you &apos;ve ever driven , from &quot; the greatest film ever sold , &quot; the greatest drink you &apos;ve ever had , a attention from &quot; the greatest movie ever sold . &quot;
in the early &apos; 80s , i got a really amazing job when my harvard professor asked me if i was interested in going to haiti and infiltrating the secret societies that were the foundation of the strength of duvalians and tonton macoutes and the poison that was used to make zombies safe .
so the idea is , besides showing that brands are part of life , actually , to get you to fund the movie ?
and we &apos;re actually showing the whole process of how it works .
the goal of the whole film is transparency .
you &apos;re going to see the whole thing going on in the movie of stats .
so this is the whole concept , the whole movie , from the beginning to the end .
and i would be happy if ceg was going to help to do this .
now , how do we start a chromosome ? how do we activate it ?
you know , it &apos;s funny , because when i first heard it , it &apos;s the ultimate respect for the audience .
but i don &apos;t know what people are going to be like .
do you have a perspective -- i don &apos;t want to use &quot; perspective , &quot; because that has a negative connotation -- but you know how this is going to evolve ?
how much money is needed to realize that ?
1.5 million .
i think it &apos;s going to be hard to meet you , but i think it &apos;s definitely worth addressing some really familiar brands .
who knows when the movie comes out , we might look like a horde vollidiot .
what do you think the answer will be ?
the answer will probably be no .
but is it a hard thing to do about the movie or a difficult thing to do about me ?
obviously , with a virus , it &apos;s very simple . it &apos;s much more complicated to deal with bacteria .
jk : both .
so ... so , not so optimistic .
so , sir , can you help me ? i need help .
i can help .
okay .
fantastic .
we need to think about which brands .
yeah .
if you look at the people that you have to deal with ...
there are some places that we can turn to .
it &apos;s also easier if you do it in eukaryonts like we are : you just take the nucleus out and put another one in it , and that &apos;s exactly what you &apos;ve all heard about cloning .
put the camera out .
i thought , &quot; put the camera out &quot; would mean that we wanted to have a backup conversation .
it turns out that it really meant , &quot; we don &apos;t want to have anything to do with your movie . &quot;
and just like that , all these companies disappeared , one by one .
none of them wanted to do something with the movie .
i was amazed .
they wanted to have absolutely nothing to do with the project .
and i was confused because i thought the whole concept of advertising was to present your product to as many people as possible , to see as many people as possible .
especially in the world today , at this intersection of new and old media and the fragmented media landscape -- it &apos;s not the idea of being in this new exciting medium that the masses bring this message .
no , that &apos;s what i thought .
in archaebacteria , the chromosome is integrated into the cell , but just recently we &apos;ve shown that you can do a complete transplant of a chromosome from one cell to the other and activate it .
but you see , the problem was that my idea had a fatal mistake , and that was the following .
in fact , no , that wasn &apos;t the mistake at all .
that wouldn &apos;t have been a problem at all .
that would have been okay .
but what this picture is for is a problem .
you see , when you type in transparency in google search , this is -- this is one of the first images that appears .
i really like your kind , sergey brin . now .
that was the problem : transparency -- free of deception and bags , just to explore and look through ; immediately understandable , characterized by visibility and access to information , especially in business language -- the last line is certainly the biggest problem .
you know , we &apos;re now hearing a lot about transparency .
our politicians say it , our president says it , even our ceos say it .
we cleaned up the chromosome of a microbial species . roughly , these two are as far apart as humans and mice . we gave some extra genes to pick this chromosome . we broke it up with enzymes to destroy all the proteins . and it was very amazing when we put it in a cell -- and they &apos;ll appreciate our very sophisticated graphs here .
but when it comes to the fact that it should be implemented , something changes .
but why ? well , transparency is frightening -- like this strange bear that still breaks .
it &apos;s unpredictable -- like this strange landroad .
and it &apos;s also very risky .
what else is risky ?
a whole bowl of cool whip food .
this is very risky .
so when i started talking to the companies and telling them that we wanted to tell this story , they said , &quot; no , we want you to tell a story .
we want you to tell a story , but we just want you to tell our story . &quot;
you see , when i was a kid and my father caught me lying -- and he &apos;s sitting there looking at me -- he would say , &quot; my son , there are three versions in every story .
the new chromosome went into the cell .
there &apos;s your version , there &apos;s my version , and there &apos;s the real version . &quot;
so you see , with this film , we wanted to tell the real version .
but since only one company , an agency was willing to help us -- and that &apos;s because i &apos;ve known john bond and richard kirshentree for years -- i realized that i had to do it alone , i had to deal with the middle man and go right to the companies with my team .
so what they suddenly started to understand -- or what i started to understand -- was that when you start talking to these companies , the idea of how your brand is understood is a profound problem .
i have friends who make big , gigantic hollywood movies , and i have friends who make little independent movies like me .
and my friends , who make big , gigantic hollywood movies , say that the reason their films are so successful is because of the brand partners they have .
and then my friends who make little independent movies say , &quot; well , how are we going to compete with these big , gigantic hollywood movies ? &quot;
and the movie is called &quot; the greatest movie ever sold . &quot;
so how exactly are we going to see ban in the movie ?
every time i go on my way , and whenever i open the medical closet , you &apos;ll see ban deodorant .
in fact , we thought that this is the end , but we tried to bring the process a little bit further .
and every time i interview someone , i can say , &quot; are you fresh enough for this interview ?
are you so far ? you look a little nervous .
i want to help you calm down .
so maybe you should put a little bit in front of the interview . &quot;
and then we offer one of these great dunes .
either &quot; floral fusion &quot; or &quot; paradise winds , &quot; they &apos;ll have the choice .
we &apos;re going to be equipped for men and for women -- solid , roll-on , or a stick , whatever .
that &apos;s the shorthand .
now i can answer all of your questions and give you an exquisite socket .
we &apos;re a smaller brand .
this is the main mechanism of evolution here .
as you &apos;ve talked about the smaller movies , we are a challenge as a brand .
so we don &apos;t have a budget like other brands .
so doing these things -- you know , reminds people of ban -- that &apos;s kind of why we &apos;re interested .
in what words would you describe ban ?
ban is blank .
that &apos;s a great question .
this is superior technology .
technology is not the way you should describe something that someone is doing under the rolls .
we talk about bold , fresh .
i think &quot; fresh &quot; is a great word that this category really makes something positive , as opposed to &quot; fighting smell and humidity . &quot;
we find all kinds of species here that have taken a second chromosome or a third of any place , adding thousands of characteristics in just a second to a species .
it keeps you fresh .
how can we keep them fresh longer -- better fresh , more fresh , three times fresh .
these things have a more positive effect .
and this is a million-dollar company .
what about me ? what about the printing types ?
i have to talk to the man on the street who are like me , otto normal consumers .
you &apos;re supposed to tell me something about my brand .
how would you describe your brand ?
hmmm , my brand ?
i don &apos;t know .
so people who think of evolution as a gene that &apos;s going to change at a time has missed a lot from biology .
i really like beautiful clothes .
80s , revival hits skate punk , except for the wash day .
all right , what is the brand gerry ?
unique .
in order to make sense of this sensation , of course , i had to know something about this remarkable belief of vodoun and voodoo is not a cult of black magic .
i think the genre , the style i have , is probably &quot; dark glamour . &quot;
i like lots of black colors , lots of gray notes and stuff like that .
but usually i have an accessory , like sunglasses , or a jewelry and stuff like that .
if dan was a brand , he would probably be a classic mercedes cabrio .
the brand two that i am is , i would say , reliable fly .
partly hippie , part of yogi , part of brooklyn-girls -- i don &apos;t know .
there are enzymes that are called restriction enzymes that are actually digest dna .
man 3 : i &apos;m the schmuseum guy .
i sell schedules all over the country , worldwide .
so i think that &apos;s my brand .
this is my brand in my little , distorted industry .
man 4 : my brand is fedex , because i was out .
man 5 : brand failed alcohol writer berling .
is that possible ?
lawyer : i &apos;m a lawyer &apos;s brand .
i &apos;m tom .
now , we can &apos;t all be the tom-brand , but i often see myself in the intersection of dark glamour and transparent fly .
the chromosome that was in the cell has no one ; the chromosomes that we &apos;ve added already .
and what happened was that i needed an expert .
i needed somebody who could invade my head , someone who could really help me understand what &apos;s called the &quot; brands personality . &quot;
and so i found a company called olson zaltman in pittsburg .
they &apos;ve helped companies like nestle , febreze , hallmark to discover this brand personality .
if they could do it for those , they could certainly help me .
they brought their pictures with them , right ?
i have that . the first picture is a picture of my family .
just tell me a little bit about how this is connected to your thoughts and feelings about yourself .
these are the people who shape my worldview .
tell me about this world .
it was expressed in the cell , and it recognized the other chromosome as a foreign material , and so we ended up with a cell with a new chromosome .
md : this world ? i think your world is the world that you live in -- like people around you , the friends , the family , the way you live your life , the work and so on .
all of these things come and start from a place , and for me they come and start with my family in west virginia .
what &apos;s the next thing you want to talk about .
the next one . this was the most beautiful day of my life .
what is the context of the thoughts and feelings about you ?
it &apos;s the way i &apos;d like to be .
i like things that are different .
i like things that are weird . i like weird things .
tell me about the &quot; why &quot; phase -- what does it bring us ?
what is the machete ? what puppets are they currently in ?
it was coloring blue because of the genes that we put in .
why is it important to reboot ? what is the red ?
tell me a little bit about this part .
a little bit more about you , that &apos;s not you .
what other metamorphosis did you go through ?
... that doesn &apos;t have to be afraid . what kind of rollercoaster are you in ?
eeeeee ! no , thank you .
thank you very much for your patience .
yeah . all right .
yeah , i don &apos;t know what it &apos;s going to be .
there were a lot of crazy things going on .
and after a very short time , it had lost all the characteristics of species and completely converted into a new species based on the new software that we put into the cell .
the first thing i saw was this idea that their branding personality corresponds to two separate , but it has full pages -- the morgan spurlock brand is an eighth / playful brand .
they &apos;re very good at doing this .
and i think there &apos;s almost a contradiction with that .
and i think some companies are just going to focus on a strength , rather than both .
a lot of companies tend to -- and this is human nature -- to avoid things where they &apos;re not sure , they &apos;re going to avoid fear , these elements , and they &apos;re willing to welcome them , and they &apos;re actually turning them into something positive for themselves , and this is a nice chess .
what other brands are like ?
the first one is a classic , apple .
and you can also see it here , target , wii , mini coopers and jetblue .
now , there are plenty of tags and eight brands , these things that come and go , but a playful , eight brand is a pretty strong thing .
an eighth , playful brand . what &apos;s your brand ?
all the proteins changed the membranes -- when we read the genetic code , it was exactly what we transferred .
if somebody asked you to describe your brand identity , your brand personality , what would it be like ?
you &apos;re an up-attribute ? are you something that brings the blood into walls ?
or are they more of a down-attribute ?
are you something a little bit quieter , more conservative ?
up-attributes are things that are playful , fresh like the fresh prince , timely , outlanded and loving like erol flynn , agile and agile , professional , glorious , magical and mystical like gandalf .
or are they more like a down-attribute ?
are you mindful and mondenn like 007 ?
are they established , traditionally , nurturing , protective , compassionate like oprah ?
are you reliable , stable , family , safe , native , holy , considerable ways the dalai lama or yoda ?
over the course of the film , we had more than 500 companies that were up and down companies that said , &quot; no , &quot; because they didn &apos;t want to be part of the project .
it may sound like genomic alchimie , but we can change the software dna , things quite dramatically .
they didn &apos;t want to have anything to do with this film , because they didn &apos;t have control , they didn &apos;t have control over the finished product .
but there are 17 brand partners who were willing to get into this control , who wanted to do business with someone as mindful and playful as i did , and who eventually enabled us to tell stories that we wouldn &apos;t normally have told -- stories that a commercial would never support .
they enabled us to tell the story of neuromarketing , as we tell the story in this film , that you use mri today to whip the functions of the brain , both to make advertising and films .
we went to sao paulo , where foreign advertising has been banned .
in the entire city , for five years , there &apos;s no progression , no poster , no flyer , nothing .
and we drove to school districts where companies are going in their way to impoverished schools , all over america .
the incredible thing for me is that the projects that i got the most feedback from , or where i got the biggest success , are the ones where i interacted with things directly .
and that &apos;s what these brands did .
because they went around the middle man , they went around the agencies , and they said that maybe the agencies don &apos;t really have their interest in mind .
i &apos;m going to negotiate with the artist directly .
now i argued that this is not the genesis -- this is based on 3.5 billion years of evolution .
i &apos;m going to work with him and create something completely different , something that makes people think that our worldview challenges .
and how was that for you ? what was it successful ?
now , since the film was premiere at the sundance film festival , we can look at this .
according to burrelle , the premiere in january , and since then -- and this is not even the whole thing -- there were 900 million calls from this film .
this is actually just a two-and-a-half week period .
this is just online -- no press , no television .
the film has not been delivered yet .
it &apos;s not even online . it &apos;s not streaming .
he hasn &apos;t come out in other countries .
well , finally , the film has acquired a very big momentum .
and i argued that we may be in the process of creating a new form of cambrian explosion where there might be massive new species education based on this digital design .
and this is not bad for a project where almost every advertising agency that we were talking to , recommended to their customers , to keep their fingers off .
one of the things that i believe in is that if you take your chance , you take risks , you have opportunities in those risks .
i think if you keep people out of it , you get them closer to failure .
i think that if you train your employees to avoid risks , you &apos;re preparing the whole company to get a profit .
i have the feeling that we need to encourage people to take risks in advance .
we need to encourage people not to be afraid of possibilities that might scare them .
after all , in the progression , we should welcome the fear .
we should put the bear in the cage .
welcome the fear . welcome the risk .
each of them is a big spoon , which is how we welcome the risk .
why should we do that ?
and finally , let &apos;s welcome transparency .
today , more than ever , a little bit of honesty brings us a long way .
and that said , with honesty and transparency , my whole talk &quot; welcome transparency &quot; was presented to you by my good friends of emc , who paid $ 7100 for the name rights in ebay .
on the contrary , it &apos;s a complex metaphysical view .
big data is being transformed into big opportunities for organizations around the world .
emc presents &quot; welcome transparency . &quot;
thank you .
now , morgan , on behalf of transparency , this : what happened to the $ 7100 ?
that &apos;s a great question .
i put a check in my pocket , put it on the top organization of the ted organization , the sapling foundation -- a check at 7100 dollars to fund my ted performance in the next year .
my name is amit .
i think it &apos;s pretty obvious in terms of what we need .
18 months ago , i did something else at google , and i talked to doing something with museums and art , and my boss , who &apos;s also today , gave me green light .
and it took 18 months .
a lot of fun negotiations and stories , i can tell you , with 17 very interesting museums from nine countries .
but i &apos;m going to focus on the demonstration .
there are a lot of stories about why we did this .
i think my personal view is very simple with this slide and your access .
i grew up in india .
i became a great education -- i didn &apos;t complain -- but i didn &apos;t have too many museums and these works of art .
so when i went and visited these museums , i started to learn a lot .
and while i was working for google , i was trying to make this desire -- to make art more accessible -- with technology together .
we &apos;re growing from six and a half to nine billion people in the next 40 years .
we then formed a team , a great team , and we started here .
i think i &apos;m going to start with the demonstration , and tell you some interesting things that happened since the launch .
so you just go to google project.com .
you can look around in all these museums here .
there &apos;s uffizi , the moma , the hermitage , the rijks , the van gogh .
i even come to one of my favorite , the metropolitan museum of art in new york .
you get in two ways -- very simple .
click , and wumms , you &apos;re in this museum .
it doesn &apos;t matter where you are -- bombay , mexico , it doesn &apos;t matter .
you go around and you amuse yourself .
to put it in my context , i was born in 1946 .
they want to orient in the museum ?
open up the map , and jump with a click .
they &apos;re in there , they want to go to the end of the gang .
just keep on going . a lot of fun .
puffs them .
thank you , but the best one is still coming .
so now i &apos;m in front of one of my favorite images , harvest workers from pieter breugel in the met .
i see this plus sign .
when the museum gave us the picture , they click on it .
now this is one of the images .
today , three people on this planet are for anyone who has existed in 1946 ; within 40 years , it will be four .
this is all metadata .
those of you who are really interested in art can click here -- but i &apos;ll click that away now .
this is one of the images that we &apos;ve captured with what we call the gigapix technology .
for example , this picture has about 10 billion images , i think .
and a lot of people ask me , &quot; what do you get for 10 billion images ? &quot;
this is what i &apos;m going to show you .
you can zoom in and out very easily .
you see something funny here .
i love this guy ; his expression is unaffordable .
but then they really want to go deep .
we have problems with food , with fresh and clean water , medicine , fuel for 6.5 billion people .
and so i started playing around , and i realized there &apos;s something going on there .
and i thought , &quot; wait a minute , that sounds interesting . &quot;
i went close , and i slowly realized that these kids actually beat something .
i did a little research , talked to some of the people who are familiar with met , and actually found out that this is a game called squail , where a gans is beaten with a stick on the tuesday .
apparently , it was quite popular .
i don &apos;t know why they did it , but i learned something about it .
to go really close , you can go up to the cracks .
just to give you the overview , i zoom out so you can see what you get .
here we were , and this is the painting .
but the best part is -- in a second .
it &apos;s going to be a challenge to offer that to nine .
let &apos;s jump quickly to moma , again in new york .
another favorite picture of me , star night .
the previous example was about finding detail .
but what if you want to see the paintbrush strikes ?
and what if you want to see van gogh creating this masterpiece ?
you zoomed in . you can actually go in .
i &apos;m going to zoom in on one of my favorite parts of this picture , until i &apos;m really in the cracks .
this is star night , probably never seen that before .
now i &apos;m going to show you my favorite function .
there are many more , but i don &apos;t have time .
we need over five billion tons of coal , 30-plus billion barrels of oil . that &apos;s a hundred million barrels a day .
that &apos;s the really cool part , it &apos;s called collections .
each of you , every one of you -- whether rich or poor , whether you have a great house -- doesn &apos;t matter .
you can go out and create your own museum online -- from all these images , you can put your own collection .
just so , you go in -- and i &apos;ve created this , it &apos;s the power of the zoom -- you can zoom in .
this is the donations , in the national allery .
you can put it all in terms of remarks , send to your friends , and start a conversation about what you feel when you look at these masterpieces .
i think , in closing , the main thing for me is that all the wonderful things here don &apos;t come from google .
they don &apos;t even come from the museums , i think .
maybe i shouldn &apos;t say that .
they come from the artists .
when we think about biological processes , or any process to replace that , it becomes a huge challenge .
and that was an experience in humility for me .
i mean , i hope we &apos;re going to be talking to this digital medium of art , and represent it properly online .
and the biggest question i &apos;ve been asked recently is , &quot; did you do this to replicate the experience of a museum visit ? &quot;
the answer to that is no .
it &apos;s to add the experience .
that &apos;s what it &apos;s about . thank you .
thank you .
this is a representation of your brain . your brain can be divided into two halves .
that &apos;s the left half , which is the logical side , and then the right half , which is the intuitive side .
if we had a scale to measure the aptite of every hemisphere , we could represent your brain .
then , of course , there &apos;s all the co2 from this material that ends up in the atmosphere .
for example , this would be somebody who is completely logical .
this would be somebody who is completely intuitive .
now , where would you position your brain on this scale ?
some of us may have decided for one of these extremes , but i think that for most people in the audience , their brain looks something like this -- with a high aptite , which is both in hemisphere .
it &apos;s not like they &apos;re both exclusive or something like that .
you can be logical and intuitive .
and so i think of myself as one of the people , along with most other experimental quantum physicists , who need a good percentage of logic to put together the complex ideas .
but at the same time , we need a good percentage of intuition to actually execute the experiments .
how do we develop this intuition ? well , we love to play with things .
so we go out and play with it , and then we look at it , and then we start to develop our intuition there .
we now have , from our discoveries around the world , a database of about 20 million genes , and i want to believe that these are the design components of the future .
basically , they do the same thing .
so one of the intuitions that they &apos;ve developed over the years is probably that a thing can only be in a place at the same time .
it &apos;s interesting .
i mean , it can sound strange to think that one thing is at the same time in two different places , but they were not born with this idea , they developed it .
i remember seeing a child play on a ground threshold .
he was another little kid , and he wasn &apos;t very good at it , and he was falling all the time .
but i bet that playing with the ground threshold , he taught a very valuable lesson , which is that the big things don &apos;t just leave you over , and that they stay in a place .
and this is a great conceptual model of the world , as long as you &apos;re not a particle physicist .
it would be a terrible model for a particle physicist , because they don &apos;t play with the ground sponges , they play with these little strange particles .
and when you play with your particles , you find all sorts of weird things -- like you fly right through walls , or you can be in two different places at the same time .
and so they wrote down all these observations , and they called them the theory of quantum mechanics .
the electronics industry had a dozen components , and look at the diversity that came out of it .
this was the state of physics a few years ago ; it took quantum mechanics to describe the little , tiny particles .
but it didn &apos;t take them to describe the great everyday objects around us .
it didn &apos;t like my intuition , and maybe just because i don &apos;t play with particles so often .
well , i sometimes play with them , but not very often .
and i &apos;ve never seen them .
i mean , no one has ever seen a particle .
but my logical side didn &apos;t like it either .
because if all of these things are made up of particles and all of these particles follow the rules of quantum mechanics , shouldn &apos;t they just follow all the rules of quantum mechanics ?
i don &apos;t see a reason why it shouldn &apos;t be that way .
so i would feel strongly better with the whole thing , if somehow we could show that everyday objects also follow the rules of quantum mechanics .
and we &apos;re primarily hitting the limits of biological reality and the limits of our imagination .
so a few years ago , i went to do that .
i created one .
this is the first object you can see that was in the quantum mechanical superposition .
so what we &apos;re looking at here is a tiny computer chip .
and you can see this green dot there in the middle .
this is the piece of metal i &apos;m going to talk about in a moment .
this is a picture of the object .
here i &apos;m going to expand it a little bit . we &apos;re looking right here at the center .
and here &apos;s a really big close-up of this little piece of metal .
so what we &apos;re looking at is a little piece of metal that &apos;s shaped like a springboard , and it &apos;s over the edge .
we have technologies today because of these fast synthesia methods to do what we call combinatorial genetics .
so i made this thing in a similar way that you make a computer chip .
i went to a clean space with new silicon slices , and for 100 hours , i reckoned all the big devices .
for the last bit , i had to build my own machine -- to get this kind of swimming pool shaped hole and this thing .
this thing has the ability to be in the quantum mechanical superposition , but it takes a little bit of help to do it .
look , let me give you an analogy .
you know , how uncomfortable it is to be in a full elevator ?
i mean , when i &apos;m alone in the elevator , i do all sorts of weird things , but then other people go up and i stop doing all these things because i don &apos;t want to harm them , or , frankly , they go away .
so quantum mechanics says that unmovable objects feel the same way .
the fellow drivers for intractable objects are not just human beings , but also the light that shines on them and the wind that passes past them and the heat of space .
and so we knew that if we wanted to see that this piece of metal behaves quantum mechanically , we had to throw out all the passengers .
we now have the ability to build a large robot that can make millions of chromosomes a day .
and then we did that .
we turned off the light , put it in a vacuum , and we sucked out all the air , and we cooled it up until almost now , on the elevator alone , the piece of metal was free to behave the way it wanted .
so we measured his movement .
we found that it &apos;s really weird to move .
instead of it just lying there , it vibrated . the way it vibrated was something like this -- like a stretching and aligning bubble .
in which we gave him a little push , we were able to vibrate it at the same time and not vibrate -- something that &apos;s only allowed in quantum mechanics .
so what i &apos;m going to tell you is something really fantastic .
what does it mean to vibrate an object at the same time and not vibrate ?
let &apos;s think about the atoms .
so the first case : all the trillions of atoms that make up the piece of metal are still there , and at the same time , the same atoms are moving up and down .
if you can imagine making these 20 million different genes , or optimizing these processes to make octan or new vaccines , we can change more molecular biology with a small team than the last 20 years of science .
just to precise times , they agree .
for the rest of the time , they &apos;re delocalized .
that means that each atom is at the same time in two different places , which at the same time means that the whole piece of metal is in two different places .
i think that &apos;s really cool .
really .
this was worth plugging in for all this year in the clean space , because , check this out , the difference between a single atom and this piece of metal is about the same as the difference between the piece of metal and you .
so if a single atom can be in two different places at the same time , this piece of metal can be in two different places , why not you ?
i mean , that &apos;s just what my logical side says .
so , imagine if you were in multiple places at the same time , how would that feel ?
how would your consciousness deal with the fact that your body is delocalized in the room ?
and it &apos;s just once selection . we can select for life , production of chemicals or fuel production and so on .
there &apos;s another aspect of the story .
when we warmed it up , turned on the light and looked in the box , we saw that the piece of metal was always there in a piece of metal .
and so i had to develop this new intuition that it looks like all the objects in the elevator are actually just agonized objects that are made together in a small room .
you hear a lot of talk about how quantum mechanics say everything is connected to everything .
well , that &apos;s not quite right .
there &apos;s more to it , it &apos;s even deeper .
it &apos;s like these connections , their connections with all the things around them , literally define who they are , and that &apos;s the profound and strange of quantum mechanics .
thank you .
in 2007 , i decided that we should reconceptualize how we think about economic development .
it should be our goal that if families think about where they live and want to work , they have the opportunity to choose between at least one hand of different cities , all in competition for new residents .
this is a picture of actual design software that we &apos;re working on that you actually sit down with and know new species about the computer .
at the moment , we &apos;re far from this goal .
there are billions of people in the developing world who don &apos;t even have a single city that they would welcome .
but the amazing thing about cities is that they &apos;re worth so much more than it costs to build them .
so we could take the world very easily with the stupidity , maybe even hundreds of new cities .
now this may sound absurd for you , as far as you &apos;ve never thought about new cities .
now , just exchange the building of apartments against the cities .
imagine that half of the people who want to live in apartments do this already , but the other half don &apos;t yet .
you could try to expand the capacity of the existing apartments .
but you know what you would be embedded in , in these apartments and the environment , there are laws for avoiding complaints and distracting them from degradation .
so it turns out to be very hard to get all these extensions .
you know , we don &apos;t necessarily know what it &apos;s going to look like . we know exactly what the genetic code is going to look like .
but you could go to a whole new place , build a whole new block of housing , provided the laws there would support such a building and not prevent it .
so i proposed that governments are creating new surfaces that are providing enough space for a city and giving them a name : charter cities .
i later found out that , about the same time , ja4 and octavio , they were thinking about the challenge of reform in honduras .
they knew that every year , about 75,000 hondurans left their country to go to the united states , and they wanted to know what they could do to make sure that these people can stay in their country and do exactly the same thing in honduras .
at this point , ja4 said to octavio , &quot; what happens if we take a blank surface of our country -- what if we just gave it a message -- a part of the american embassy , part of the canadian bottleneck , and when people want to go to work under the canadian rules or the united states , can they work there , and can do anything on the surface of these messages that they usually have to go to canada or america ? &quot;
in the summer of 2009 , honduras suffered from a major comprehension crisis .
in the next planning elections , pepe lobo won in a turnaround , whose program promised both novelty and simplification .
he asked octavio to become his chief .
in the meantime , i was preparing for a talk at tedglobal .
by improving , testing , and by studying consumers , i &apos;ve tried to reduce this complicated concept of charter city to the basic elements .
we &apos;re now focusing on the fourth generation fuels .
the first point is the importance of laws , laws , which determine that you can &apos;t disturb existing housing owners .
we give new technologies a lot of attention , but for progress , it needs technologies and laws , and it &apos;s usually laws that keep us back .
in the fall of 2010 , a friend from guatemala octavio sent the link to the tedtalk .
again , he showed him ja4 .
they called me up .
and they said , &quot; let &apos;s present this to the chairman of our country ! &quot;
so we met in december at a hotel meeting in miami .
i tried to make it clear how valuable cities are , how much more valuable they are than they cost .
and i &apos;ve used this graph to show how valuable rohland is in a place like new york , and remember that in some cases , a surface per square meter is worth thousands of dollars .
but it was a pretty abstract discussion , in a place where there was a break , octavio said , &quot; paul , maybe we could look at the tedtalk . &quot;
you &apos;ve seen corn to ethanol recently , which is just a bad experiment .
so the tedtalk represented in a very simple form that a charter city is a place whose first uninhabited country is a founding contract that determines the laws that govern there and gives people the opportunity to decide either to live under these rules or not .
that &apos;s why i was asked by the president of honduras , who said that we have to make this project happen , that it &apos;s important , and that this is the way to bring our country forward .
i was asked to come to tegucigalpa and give a talk again on the fourth and fifth of january .
so i gave another talk filled with facts , which involves a graph like this , which tries to demonstrate that if you want to create a lot of value in a city , it has to be a very large city .
if i asked you to count the great world religions , what would you say ?
this is a picture of the city of denver , and the sketch represents the new airport that was built in denver .
this airport alone has a area of 100 square kilometers .
so i tried to convince the hondurans , if you wanted to build a new city , you have to start with an area of at least 1,000 square kilometers .
that &apos;s more than 250 thousand acres .
politely , all of them applauded .
the audience &apos;s faces were very serious and alert .
we have fuels of the second and third generation that are going to come out pretty soon that will have much higher sugar , like octan or different kinds of butanol .
the head of congress came up and said , &quot; professor romer , thank you very much for your talk , but maybe we could look at the tedtalk .
i have him on my laptop here . &quot;
so i sat down , and they played the tedtalk .
and i &apos;ve come to the core point that a new city offers new opportunities to people .
there would be the opportunity to live in a city that would be in honduras , instead of hundreds of miles from the north .
and a new city also includes new possibilities for leaders .
the leaders of the government in honduras would depend on the help of partnership countries , and they could benefit from their partnerships that they would support in providing the laws for this charter and for the performance that everybody can trust that the charter is really being implemented .
and the realization of president lobo , was that the certainty of the implementation that i &apos;ve been thinking about as a way to get the foreign investors to come and build this city could be equally significant for all the parties in honduras who have been in fear and mistrust for many years .
we went to an area .
this picture is from this place .
but , as we think , the only way biology can have a huge impact without any further increase in the cost of food or the limitation of its availability is when we see co2 as an output material , and so we &apos;re working on cells that go this way .
it &apos;s a thousand square miles .
and shortly after , on january 19th , they voted on congress for a change in constitution to have a constitutional regime that is reliable for special development areas .
in a country that has just been in a major crisis , congress has been elected for this constitution of 124 to a voice .
all the parties , all the fractions of society , were supporting this .
but to be part of the constitution , it has to be approved twice by congress .
on february 17th , it was approved for the second time with 114 to a voice .
immediately after this election , between the 21st and february 24th , a delegation of about 30 famines traveled to the two places in the world that were most interested in getting into the business of the city building .
one place is south korea .
this is a picture of a big , new city center that was built in south korea -- big as the city center of bostons .
everything you can see in this picture was built within four years after it took four years to get the permits .
and we think we &apos;re going to be the first with the fuels of the fourth generation , and in about 18 months .
the other place that was very interested in urbanism is singapore .
it &apos;s already built two cities in china , and the third one is in preparation .
so if you &apos;re basically thinking about it , it &apos;s where we are today .
you already have a building site , and you &apos;re already talking about this area for the second city .
it &apos;s already working on a legal system that allows managers to participate , and it &apos;s also working on an external legal system .
a country has already offered to provide its supreme court , as a court for the decent appeal of the court system there .
and also urban designers and builders are very interested .
they even bring funding .
one of the things , as you know , has been declared , is that there &apos;s a lot of rent .
there are a lot of businesses that would like to grow in america , especially in a place with a free trade zone , and there are a lot of people who would like to live there .
sunlight and co2 are a method .
around the world , there are 700 million people who say they want to live in a different place all the time .
a million people go out of latin america every year and go to the united states .
many of them are fathers who are forced to leave their families to look for work -- sometimes they &apos;re single mothers who have to make enough money to be able to afford food and clothing .
unfortunately , sometimes even children who are trying to find their parents , who , in some cases , have not seen their parents for a decade .
so what is it for an idea to think about this in honduras to build a whole new city ?
or even building a fragrance of these cities , or distributing hundreds of them around the world ?
so what is it for an idea to insist that every family has a choice between several cities that are competing for new residents ?
this is an idea worth spreading .
my friends from honduras asked me to say , thank you ted .
do you know how many decisions do you make on a typical day ?
but in our discovery of the world , we have all sorts of different methods .
do you know how many decisions do you make in a typical week ?
we have to deal with the unstoppable separation of death , and so it shouldn &apos;t surprise us all singing , dancing and art .
i did a survey recently with over 2,000 americans , and the average number of decisions , which is , according to a typical american in one day , 70 .
another study was done recently with ceos , where they watched ceos for a week .
and these scientists have just documented the different topics that these ceo has been doing , and how much time they spent making decisions that are related to the topics .
and they found that the average ceo is doing 139 tasks a week .
each of these topics , of course , was made of many , many smaller decisions .
50 percent of your decisions were made in nine minutes or less .
only for about 12 percent of their decisions did they take an hour or more of their time .
think about your own decisions .
do you know how many decisions do you make in the nine minutes of category versus those in the one hour of category ?
this is an organism that we described in 1996 .
how good do you think you &apos;re at copying the decisions ?
today i want to talk about one of the biggest decision-making problems of our modern times , the decision-making overlap problem .
i want to talk about the problem and some of the possible solutions .
now , when i talk about this problem , i &apos;m going to ask you some questions , and i want to know your answers .
if i ask you a question , raise your hand , because i &apos;m blind , only if you want to burn some calories .
otherwise , i ask you , if i ask you a question , and your answer is yes , so my first question for today is , are you ready to hear about the decision-overlasting problem ?
thank you .
when i was a graduate student at stanford university , i went to this very exclusive grocery store , at least at the time he was really exclusive .
it was a store called draeger &apos;s .
this business , it was almost like a pleasure savings .
it lives in the deep sea , about a mile and a half deep , at almost boiling water temperatures .
they had 250 different kinds of mustard and essig and over 500 different kinds of fruits and vegetables and more than two dozen different kinds of water -- and that was at a time when we actually drank the water .
i loved going to this business , but at one point , i wondered , well , how come you never buy anything ?
here &apos;s the olive oil gang .
they had over 75 different kinds of olive oil , including those who were embedded in boxes that came from a thousand years old olive trees .
so i decided to go to the filiallard one day , and i asked the head , &quot; does this model work that you really offer to people all these possibilities ? &quot;
and he pointed to the tourists &apos; buses that came every day and usually had their cameras .
we decided to do an experiment , and we chose marmelade for our experiment .
here &apos;s her marmelate gang .
they had 348 different kinds of marmelade .
we set up a little cookout right at the entrance of the business .
it converts co2 into methane using hydrogen as a source of energy .
we put six different flavors of marmelade there , or 24 different flavors of marmelade , and we looked at two things : first , i mean , what would more people stand and try marmelade ?
there are more people left when it was 24 , about 60 percent than when it was six , about 40 percent .
and after that , we looked at the case that people were buying more of a glass of marmelade .
now we saw the reverse effect .
of the people who stayed when it was 24 , only three percent actually bought a glass of marmelade .
of the people who stayed when it was six , well , now we saw that 30 percent of them actually bought a glass of marmelade .
now , when you calculate it , people bought six times more of a glass of marmelade , who they had six choices than if they had 24 choices .
now , deciding not to buy a glass of marmelade is probably good for us -- at least it &apos;s good for our waistline -- but it turns out that the decision overload problem also affects us in very consequence decisions .
we don &apos;t choose to even though it &apos;s against our own best interests .
so on the subject of the day , financial saving .
we &apos;re looking at whether we can use stored co2 , which could just be put into production stores , convert the co2 into fuel to drive this process .
now i &apos;m going to describe to you a study that i did with gur huberman , emir kamenica , wei jang , where we looked at the decisions for the retirement of nearly a million americans from about 650 plans across the united states .
and what we looked at was whether the number of fondsans who were able to have a retirement plan , the 401 plan , is going to affect the probability of more being saved for tomorrow .
and we found that , in fact , there was a relationship .
so in these plans , we had about 657 plans that offered people something between two and 59 different fonds .
and what we found was that the more fund was offered , in fact , that the more fund was lower .
now , if you look at the extreme , the plans that offered two fund , had a paragraph rate in the &apos; 70s -- still not as high as we want .
in the plans offered almost 60 fonds , the participation rate now dropped to about the sixth percentage .
now it turns out that even if you decide to participate , if there were more choices for choice , even then , it has negative consequences .
so the people who decided to participate , rather than the more options they were available , the more they avoided to actimize and fund .
the more options they had available , the more they put all their money in pure money market accounts .
within a short period of time , we think we could be able to solve one of the fundamental questions of life .
none of these extreme decisions , belongs to the decisions that someone would recommend if their future financial well-being is important .
christianity , islam , buddhism , judaism , whatever .
now , in the last 10 years , we &apos;ve seen three essential negative consequences in humans that are providing more and more choices .
they &apos;re pushing the decision -- they &apos;re pushing it up , even when it comes to their own best interest .
they make worse decisions -- worse financial decisions and worse medical decisions .
they &apos;re more likely to decide for things that they make themselves less happy , even if they make it objective better .
the main reason for this is that maybe we can enjoy looking at these huge shelves full of mayonaise , mustard , essive and marmelade , but we can &apos;t actually take the comparison and the boundaries and then actually choose something from the fantastic offer .
so what i want to suggest to you today are four simple techniques -- techniques that we &apos;ve tested in different ways and in different research places -- that you can just use in your business .
first of all , limited .
you &apos;ve heard it before , but it &apos;s never been more true than today that less is more .
people are always worried when i say , &quot; limited . &quot;
you know , we really have -- moderate goals like replacing the entire petrochemical industry . right . if you couldn &apos;t do that at ted , where else ? becoming a main source of energy .
they &apos;re always worried that they &apos;re losing regal-surface .
but in fact , we &apos;re seeing it more and more , that if you &apos;re willing to be limited , and you &apos;re going to get rid of the unimportant equal possibilities , well , there &apos;s a increase in sales , it &apos;s going to reduce the cost , &amp; amp ; and there &apos;s an improvement in decision-making perception .
when proctor and gamble reduced the different head and shoulder species from 26 to 15 , they experienced an increase in sales by 10 percent .
when the golden cat corporation got rid of their 10 worst catastrophic , they experienced that the winning was up by 87 percent -- a result of both , the increase in sales and reducing cost .
you know , the average supermacrt today offers you 45,000 products .
a typical walmart today offers you 100,000 products .
but the ninth largest supermarket , the ninth largest supermarket in the world today , is aldi , and they only offer them 1,400 products -- a kind of tomato sauce in doses .
now , in the world of savings , i think one of the best examples that recently came to the market , about how best you can mandate choice , was something that david laibson was very much involved in , it &apos;s a program that is offered at harvard .
every single harvard staff is now automatically participating in a lifetime fund .
those who really want to make a choice are going to be 20 fonds , not 300 or more fund .
but in the same way , we &apos;re working on using the same approaches for the development of vaccines .
you know , people often say , &quot; i don &apos;t know how to limit it .
it &apos;s all important opportunities . &quot;
and the first thing i ask the staff is , &quot; tell me how the possibilities are different from each other .
and if your employees can &apos;t keep them apart , your customers can &apos;t either . &quot;
now , before we started lunch today , i had a conversation with gary .
and gary said that he would be willing to offer a single vacation to the most beautiful street in this audience .
here &apos;s a description of the street .
and i &apos;d like to read them to you .
and now i &apos;m going to give you a couple of seconds to read them , and then i &apos;m going to ask you to clap , if you &apos;re ready to adopt gary &apos;s offer .
okay . anybody who &apos;s willing to take on gary &apos;s offer .
you &apos;ve seen it this year with the flu , we &apos;re always on the back a year , and we have a dollar too little when it comes to the right vaccine .
are they all ?
well , let me show you a little bit more of that .
you knew , it was a trick , right ?
now , who &apos;s ready for this journey .
i think i may have heard more hands .
good .
in fact , you &apos;re objectively looking at it , the first time that you had more information than the second time , but i would dare to guess that you felt it the second time that you were real .
because the images made it feel more real for them .
what brings me to the second technology that helps them deal with the problem of decision-making overlap , which is concretization .
it &apos;s about people to understand the difference between possibilities , to understand what the consequences are associated with the individual possibilities , and that these consequences need to be felt vivid and concrete .
i think it can be changed by creating recombined vaccines in the forefront .
why do people spend , on average , 15 to 30 percent more when they use an ec-map or a credit card than they do on barrels ?
because it doesn &apos;t feel real money .
and it turns out that if you make something feel concrete , it &apos;s a very good tool to get people to save more .
so in a study that i did with shlomo benartzi and alessandro previtero , we did a study with the people at ing -- employees all working for ing -- and these people were all in a gathering where they signed up their participation for their retirement plan .
and during this gathering , we left this gathering just as it was , except we added a little bit of a little bit .
the smallness that we added was that we asked people to just think of all the positive things that would happen in their lives if they were saving money .
in which we did this simple thing , there was an increase in participation by 20 percent , and there was a increase in the number of people who were willing to save , or an increase in four percent in the amount they were willing to pay for the savings account .
third technology : categorization .
we can deal with more categories than with more choices .
here , for example , is a study that we did in a magazine course .
this is what the future might look like with changes , can now accelerate the evolutionary tree with synthetic bacteria , archaea , and possibly eukaryontes .
it turns out that in the way man &apos;s supermarkets up and down in the northeast , it varies the number between 331 different kinds of magazines up to 664 magazines .
but you know what ?
if i show you 600 magazines and i split them into 10 categories , or i show you 400 magazines , and i give them up into 20 categories , they believe that i &apos;ve given them more choices and a better choice experience than i would have given them 400 to that if i had given them 600 .
because the categories tell me how to keep them apart .
here are two different jewelry facilities .
one is called &quot; jazz , &quot; and the other is called &quot; swing . &quot;
if you think the left ad is swing , and the ad on the right is jazz , you clap your hands .
okay , there &apos;s a couple .
if you think the one on the left is jazz and the one on the right is swing , please clap .
okay , a few more .
we are light years away from improving people , and our goal is that we have a chance to survive long enough to possibly do that . thank you .
well , it turns out they &apos;re right .
the one on the left is jazz , and the one on the right is swing , but you know what ?
this is a highly unuseful categorization scheme .
the categories have to say something to the selector , not to which the choice is provided .
and this problem you often see when you look at the long lists of all these fonds .
who do you really want to inform with this ?
my fourth technology : requirement for complexity .
it turns out that we can actually deal with more information than we think we just need to simplify it .
we need to slowly increase complexity .
i &apos;m going to show you an example of what i mean .
at the last ted conference , i gave an introduction to the lhc .
let &apos;s take a very , very complicated decision : the purchase of a car .
here &apos;s a german car manufacturer who gives you the opportunity to completely configure your car .
you have to make 62 different decisions to design your car completely .
now , these decisions are different in the number of choices that they &apos;re offering per decision .
car colors , outdoor color of the car -- i have 56 possibilities .
motors , gears -- four options .
what i &apos;m doing now is i &apos;m changing the order in which the decisions appear .
half of the customers go from the many possibilities , 56 car colors to the low possibilities , four commandments .
the other half of the customers go from the low possibilities , four commandments , to the 56 car colors , many possibilities .
what do i look at ?
and i promised to come back to tell you how the machine works .
how interested you are .
if you use the standard choice all the time , it means that you &apos;re overwhelmed , the hottest , i lose it .
what you find is that the people who go from the many to the low choice dough are going to pick and choose the standard choice over and over again .
we &apos;re losing them .
if you go from the little bit of choice to the many , you stay with it .
it &apos;s the same information . it &apos;s the same number of possibilities .
the only thing i &apos;ve done is to change the order in which this information is presented .
when i start with the simple one , i learn how to choose .
even though the gear is choosing , it doesn &apos;t tell me about my preferences in the interior , it &apos;s still preparing me to choose .
it also gets me excited about the big product that i put together , and so i &apos;m willing to get motivated with the interest .
so it &apos;s now . and for those of you who weren &apos;t there at the time , the lhc is the biggest scientific experiment ever attempted -- 27 miles in diameter .
let me summarize .
i &apos;ve told you about four techniques that alleviate the problem of decision-making overlap -- limited -- get rid of the superfluous alternatives ; concrete -- make it real ; categorize -- we can better deal with more categories , less possibilities ; we can prepare for complexity .
each of these techniques that i describe to you today is thought to help you manage the opportunities -- good for you , you can use them for yourself , good for the people that you &apos;re offering service .
because i think the key to the best possible choice is that you &apos;re selective in the selection .
and the more we are voting , the better we will be able to practice the art of choice .
thank you .
hi . i &apos;m kevin allocca , drinking managers on youtube . i look at youtube videos .
that &apos;s true .
today , we want to talk about how video becomes viral , and then we want to talk about why it &apos;s important .
we all want to be stars -- celebrities , singers , comedians -- when i was young , it seemed so infinitely difficult .
his job is to create the conditions that existed less than a billionth of a second after the universe began -- and up to 600 million times in a second .
but web videos have enabled us all , or all of our creative activities , to become terribly famous in a part of the culture of our world .
every single one of you could be famous about the internet until the next saturday .
but on youtube , more than 48 hours of video is uploaded every minute .
again , only a tiny percentage of this is ever viral , and it &apos;s looked at thousands of times and so on at the cultural moment .
so how does this work ?
a continent is always left out , because the assumption was that there was no religious faith in sub-saharan africa . of course , there was one , and voodoo is simply the remaining of this very profound religious thought that came through the tragic diaspora of the slavery of the slavery .
three things : tastemaker , participatory communities and the unexpected .
well , then we want to .
oh my god . oh my god .
oh my god !
whoa !
it &apos;s just breathtaking ambitious .
ohhhhhhhhh , wowwwww !
last year , bear vasquez sent this video that he had filmed in front of his house in the yosemite national park .
in 2010 , it had been looked at 23 million times .
this graph shows what it looked like when the video was first popular last summer .
in fact , bear didn &apos;t want to make a viral video .
he just wanted to share a rainbow .
because that &apos;s what you &apos;re doing when you &apos;re called yosemite mountain bear .
he had uploaded a lot of natural videos .
and this video had actually been sent in january .
what happened here ?
this is the machine below geneva .
there was jimmy kimmel coming .
jimmy kimmel sent the tweet who ended up making the video so popular .
because tastemaker like jimmy kimmel introduces us to new and interesting things and show a big audience .
it &apos;s friday , friday . gotta get down on friday . everybody &apos;s looking forward to the weekend , weekend . friday , friday . getdown on friday . you wouldn &apos;t have thought that we would have this conversation without talking about this video , i hope .
rebecca blacks &apos; friday is one of the most popular videos of the year .
it &apos;s been looked at almost 200 million times this year .
this is what the graphics looked like .
as with &quot; double rainbow , &quot; it seems to have come out of nowhere .
what happened that day ?
well , it was friday , that &apos;s true .
we take pictures of these mini-big bangs in detectors .
if you want to know it , those other tips are also free .
but what about that day , that particular friday ?
well , tosh.0 stopped , a lot of blogs started writing about it .
michael j. nelson from the mystery science theater was one of the first to make twitter a joke about it .
what &apos;s important is that a single person or a group of tastemakers took a standpoint , shared with a large audience , thereby accelerating the process .
and then this community of people who shared this big insider joke , and they started talking about it and playing around with it .
now there are 10,000 parodies of &quot; friday &quot; on youtube .
in the first seven days , there was a parody for every single day of the week .
unlike the 20th century , the participation of the community is our way to become part of this phenomenon -- either by spreading it or making something new .
nyan cat is animation and music in endless loop .
this is what i work on . he &apos;s called the atlas detector -- 44 meters wide , 22 meters in diameter .
that &apos;s it , very simple .
this year , it &apos;s been looked at almost 50 million times .
and if you think that &apos;s crazy , you should know that there &apos;s a three-hour version that &apos;s been looked at four million times .
even cats are looking at this video .
cats are looking at cats that are looking at this video .
what &apos;s important is the creativity that &apos;s in the internet culture of techie and geeks .
there were remixes .
somebody made an old-fashioned version of it .
and then it became international .
a whole remix community came out of the ground that made it from a stupid joke to something that we can all participate in .
here &apos;s a spectacular picture of the atlas in construction so you can see the scale .
today , we don &apos;t just find pleasure in something , we do with it .
who could have looked at all this ?
who could have predicted &quot; double rainbow &quot; or rebecca black or &quot; nyan cat ? &quot;
what scripts could you have written in which it would have been ?
in a world where every minute , two days of video is uploaded , only really can produce unique and unexpected videos .
i admit i wasn &apos;t particularly interested when a friend told me to look at this great video , about a guy protesting in new york against bicycles ticket .
i got a ticket because i didn &apos;t drive on the bike route , but often there are disabilities that don &apos;t let you drive on the bike lane .
since this was completely surprising and humorous , casey niestate &apos;s funny idea and his argument was looked at five million times .
this approach is true for anything new that we do creatively .
and all of this leads to the one big question .
on september 10 , last year , the machine ran for the first time .
what does that mean ?
ohhhh .
what does that mean ?
tastemaker , creative participants , totally unexpected , are the characteristics of a new kind of media and culture that everybody has access to and that the audience has popularity in .
as i said , one of the biggest stars at the moment -- justin bieber -- started with youtube .
no one has to give the green light to your ideas .
and today , we all feel ourselves as owners of our pop culture .
and these are not the features of old media , and they &apos;re not going to meet the media today , but they &apos;re going to determine the conversation of the future .
thank you .
and this picture was taken by atlas .
the story is not over yet .
it &apos;s a puzzle that &apos;s still being put together .
i want to tell you about some of the puzzles .
imagine the first piece : a man who &apos;s burning his life &apos;s work .
he &apos;s a poet , a writer , a man whose whole life was held together by the simple hope of oneness and freedom of his home .
keep him in front of the communist &apos;s march in saigon , as he must say , that his life had been a single waste .
the words , as long as his friends , now spotted his .
he moved back to silence .
he died , broken by history .
he &apos;s my grandfather .
it caused immense juvenile in the control room .
i never met him personally .
but our lives are so much more than our memories .
my grandmother never let me forget his life .
i had to make sure that it wasn &apos;t free , and it was my job to learn that the story was trying to crush , but we got over .
the next piece of puzzle shows how a boat is running in the early morning red body on sea .
my mother may was 18 when her father died -- in an arranged marriage , already with two little girls .
for her , life had set her a task : the escape of her family and a new life in australia .
it was completely exclusive that she could fail .
after a four-year-old and film tires , saga glitt stepped onto the lake as a fishing boat .
all adults were aware of the risks .
it &apos;s a picture of the first radiation particle that took all the way around the lhc , and then , in intention , collided with a part of the lhc to have a rain of particles prashing on the detector .
the biggest fear was pirate , rape and death .
like most adults on the boat , my mother was carrying a little poison bottle .
in a prisoner &apos;s exception , only my sister and i , then you and my grandmother would have drunk of it .
my first memories are from this boat -- the steady scarf of the engine , the clapping of every wave on the bug , the long and empty horizon .
i don &apos;t remember the pirates that came many times , but they were fooled by the death courage of the men on our boat , or the exhaustion of the engine who didn &apos;t want to launch six hours .
but i remember the lights of the oil platform off the malayan coast , and the young man who collapsed and died , the end of the journey was too much for him , and the taste of the first apple that gave me one of the men on the platform .
no apple ever tapped that way again .
after three months in a refugee camp , we ended up in melbourne .
and the next piece of puzzle is about four women in three generations who together build a new life .
we went down to footscray , one of the working-class suburbs , whose population is made of immigrant layers .
in other words , when we saw this picture on september 10 , we knew that the machine works , which is a big triumph .
unlike in the old-class suburbs , whose existence was completely unknown , there was no sophistication in footscray .
the scaffolding from the ladaism barriers came from the rest of the world .
but what makes voodoo so interesting is this living relationship between the living and the dead .
and the fatty broken english were traded between people who had one thing in common : they started new .
my mother worked on farms , then on a assembly line in a car factory , six days , double layers .
she somehow managed to find the time to acquire english and it qualifications .
we were poor .
every dollar was divided , and it was put into more english and mathematics , no matter what we had to do for it , and most of the time , the new things that were coming out of the second hand .
two strands for school , each one to cover the holes in the other .
a school uniform to the buttons , because she had to do six years .
and there were the rare but painful choirs of &quot; slight eye , &quot; and here and there are some tapestries : &quot; asian , go home . &quot;
i don &apos;t know if this made the biggest jew , or this , when somebody went to google page and found the front page like this .
home where ?
something was going on inside of me .
there was a reconciliation meeting , and a quiet voice said , &quot; i &apos;m going to go out of your way . &quot;
my mother , my sister and i slept in the same bed .
my mother was exhausted every night , but we told each other about our day , and we listened to the movements of our grandmother &apos;s house .
my mother suffered from nightmares from the boat .
and it was my job to stay awake every night until their nightmares came so i could wake them up .
she opened a computer business , then did a cosmetic education , and then opened up a business .
and the women came with their stories about men who didn &apos;t have the change , angry and inflexible , and troubled kids , trapped between two worlds .
loans and sponsors were searched .
it means that we have a cultural impact next to the scientific .
centers were built .
i lived in parallel worlds .
in one , i was the classic asian student who was making inexorable demands for themselves .
in the other , i was involved in uncertain lives that wore tragic scars of violence , drug abuse and insulation .
but so many , over the years , they got help .
and because of this help , i was chosen in my last year of law school as a young australian of the year .
and i was catapulted from one piece of puzzle to the next , and the edges didn &apos;t fit together .
tan le , anonymous resident of footscray , was now tan le , refugee and social activist who was invited to speak in places that she had never heard of , and in homes that she could never have imagined existed .
i wasn &apos;t familiar with the label .
i didn &apos;t know how to use the bribe .
about a week later , there was a problem with the machine that had to do with these wires here -- these golden wires here .
i didn &apos;t know how to talk about wine .
i didn &apos;t know how to talk about anything .
i wanted to go back to the routine and the convenience of the life of an unknown suburb -- a grandmother , a mother and two daughters who have graduated every day as much as for 20 years , telling each other the stories of their day and intervening , we still have three in the same bed .
i told my mother i wouldn &apos;t do that .
she reminded me that i was now as old as she was when we climbed the boat .
no had never been an opportunity .
&quot; just do it , &quot; she said . &quot; and don &apos;t be what you &apos;re not . &quot;
so i talked about youth incarceration and education , and the neglect of the marginalized and disenfranchised .
and the more open i talked , the more i should tell .
i met people in all life , so many of them did what they loved , lived on the limits of the possible .
these wires run 13-thousand light bulbs when the machine is on high performance .
and even though i graduated , i realized that i couldn &apos;t deal with a career in jura .
there had to be another piece of puzzle .
and i realized at the same time that it &apos;s okay to be an outsider , a newcomer , new in the picture -- and not just okay , but something you have to be grateful for , maybe a gift of the boat .
because belonging can be so easily led to the collapse of the horizon , it can mean so easily that you accept the assumptions of the environment .
i &apos;ve now gone out of my comfort zone to know that , yes , the world breaks apart , but not the way you fear it .
possibilities that were not allowed were explicitly encouraged .
there was an energy , an inexorable optimism , a strange mixture of humility and guard .
so i followed my gut feeling .
and i collected a small team of people around me , for whom the boxes are not going to be a disgusting challenge .
for a year , we didn &apos;t have a cent .
now , the engineers among you will look at them and say , &quot; no , you don &apos;t . these are little wires . &quot;
at the end of a day , i cook a giant pot of soup that we shared .
we worked in the night until late .
most of our ideas were crazy , but it was a few brilliant people , and we made the breakthrough .
i made the decision to move to the united states .
after just one journey there .
my gut feeling again .
three months later , i was moved , and the adventure continued .
before i close the talk , i &apos;d like to tell you about my grandmother .
she grew up at a time when confucianism was the social norm and the local mandarin was the most important person .
life had not changed for centuries .
they can do that because if you cool them down very far , they become something called superconductors .
her father died shortly after she was born .
her mother was raising her alone .
at 17 , she became the second woman of a mandarin whose mother beat her .
without her husband &apos;s support , she cared for a sensation by bringing him to the court and applying him in her own case , and an even larger sensation than she won .
&quot; don &apos;t go &quot; turned out to be untrue .
i was shooting in a hotel room in sydney when she died , 1,000 miles away in melbourne .
i looked through the shooting wall , and i saw them standing on the other side .
i knew she had come to say goodbye .
my mother called me a few minutes after that .
a few days later , we went to a buddhist temple in footscray and sat around their sarg .
so at minus 271 degrees , colder than the room between the stars , these wires can hold the tension .
we told her stories , and we insurred her that we were still with her .
at midnight , the monk came and said he had to close the sarg .
my mother asked us to touch her hand .
she asked the monk , &quot; why is her hand so warm and the rest of her is so cold ? &quot;
&quot; because you &apos;ve been holding them this morning , &quot; he said .
&quot; you didn &apos;t let them go . &quot;
if there &apos;s a band in our family , it goes through women .
if you look at who we were and how life shaped us , we can now see that the men who might have come to our lives would have come to our quest .
the defeat would have been too simple .
now i &apos;d like to have my own children , and i &apos;m still thinking about the boat .
in one of the connections , between nine thousand magnets at the lhc , there was a manufactured .
who would ever wish one ?
yeah , i &apos;m afraid of privilege , of ease , of legitimacy .
can i give you a bug in your life that is courageously drifting every wave , the unbiased , steady tuckers of the engine , the vast horizon , that doesn &apos;t guarantee anything ?
i don &apos;t know .
but if i could give this , and i could make it safe , i would do it .
also , tans &apos;s mother is here today in the fourth or fifth row .
i &apos;m here to share with you my photography .
is it even photography ?
because this is , of course , a picture that you can &apos;t take with your camera .
yet , my interest in photography , when i got my first digital camera , at the age of 15 .
and by doing that , the wires are slightly heated and 13-thousand light bulbs suddenly encountered electric resistance .
i combined it with my former preferences for drawing , but it was a little bit different , because using the camera , the process was actually in planning .
and if you take a picture with a camera , the process ends when you hit the trigger .
so for me , photography seemed to be more about being in the right place at the right time .
i thought everybody could do that .
so i wanted to create something else , something where the process starts when the trigger is pressed .
photographs like this : a building site along a much rider road .
but it has an unexpected twist .
and yet , it keeps a realistic level .
or photos like this -- dark and colorful at the same time , but all with the common goal of keeping a realistic level .
when i say reality , i mean photoreality .
this was the result .
because , of course , it &apos;s not something you can really capture , but i always want to make it look like it could have been in a picture .
photographs where you have to think for a moment to figure out the trick .
so it &apos;s more about capturing an idea than really a moment .
but what is the trick that makes it look realistic ?
the living ones gave birth to the spirits .
is it about the details or the colors ?
is it about light ?
what creates the illusion ?
sometimes perspective is the illusion .
but ultimately , it &apos;s about how we interpret the world and how it can be made on a two-dimensional surface .
it &apos;s not about what &apos;s realistic , but what we think is realistic .
now , all of this is even more amazing if you can imagine that the magnets weigh over 20 tons and shifted by about 30 inches .
so i think the foundations are very simple .
i think of them as a puzzle of reality where you can take different pieces and put them together to create an alternative reality .
and let me show you a simple example .
we have three perfectly imaginable physical objects that we can all relate to in a three-dimensional world .
but in a certain way , you can create something that still looks three-dimensional , as if it could exist .
but at the same time , we know that this is not possible .
so we &apos;re overlisting our brains , because our brains simply don &apos;t accept that it doesn &apos;t really make sense .
and i see the same process in combining photos .
it &apos;s really just about combining different realities .
so the things that make a picture look realistic , i think it &apos;s the things that we don &apos;t think about , the things around us in our everyday lives .
so we damaged about 50 of the magnets .
but when we combine photographs , it &apos;s really important to think about it , because otherwise they just look kind of wrong .
so i would say that there are three simple rules to be able to achieve a realistic outcome .
as you can see , these are not three special images .
but combined , you can create something special like this .
so the first rule is that combined photos should have the same perspective .
secondly , combined photos should have the same type of lighting .
and these two images are fulfilling these two demands -- shot at the same altitude and the same type of lighting .
third , it &apos;s about making it impossible to tell where the individual images start and end by connecting them seamlessly .
it &apos;s impossible to say how the photo was actually put together .
so by comparing color , contrast and brightness to the edges to the individual images , photographic lack , like field depth , degraded colors and disorders , we &apos;re wiping the boundaries between the different images and making them look like a single picture , even though a picture can contain hundreds of levels .
and they had to remove what we did .
here &apos;s another example .
you might think that &apos;s just a landscape , and the bottom part was manipulated .
but this picture is actually completely composed from photographs of different places .
i personally find out that it &apos;s easier to create a place than to find a place , because you don &apos;t have to deal with the ideas in your head .
but it requires a lot of planning .
and when i had this idea in the winter , i knew it took me several months to plan it , to find the different places for the pieces of the puzzle .
for example , the fish had been taken on a fishery trip .
the bank is from another place .
the underwater part comes from a quarry .
and yes , i even put the house on the top of the island in red to make it look swedish .
we repaired them , we repaired them .
so to achieve a realistic outcome , i think it &apos;s going to go beyond planning .
i always start with a sketch , an idea .
after that , it &apos;s about the combination of different images .
and here &apos;s every piece that &apos;s very well planned .
and then if you take good images , the result can be pretty beautiful , and also quite realistic .
so there are all the tools available , and the only thing that limics us is our imagination .
thank you .
i &apos;d like to talk to you about why so many electronic health projects fail .
and i think the most important thing about this is that we stopped talking to our patients .
and one of the things that we introduced at radboud university was to hire a major listener .
they &apos;re all back on their way .
and she doesn &apos;t do that very scientifically -- she puts a cup of coffee or tea and asks the patients , families , relatives , &quot; how is it ?
how can we help you ? &quot;
and we think we want to think that this is one of the main problems , why everybody -- maybe only most of the electronic health projects fail , because we stopped listening .
this is my wlan-waage . it &apos;s a very simple thing .
it &apos;s got a button , it &apos;s got a button .
and every morning , i jump on it .
and yeah , i have a task , as you might recognize .
i &apos;ve done my job at 95 pounds .
it works very simply : every time i jump on the scale , it also sends my data to google health .
and there they &apos;re also being called off by my general doctor , so that he can see where my weight problem is , not only the moment i need cardiological support or something , but also with a glimpse of the past .
by the end of march , the lhc will be able to work again .
but there &apos;s something else .
maybe you know that , i &apos;ve got over 4,000 followers on twitter .
so every morning , i jump on my wlan-scale , and people talk to me before i sit in the car , &quot; for lunch , just a little salad today , lucia . &quot;
but this is the nicest thing that can happen , because this is the group forced , group forced to help patients , because this could be used for obesity , or it could be used for patients to get rid of smoking .
but it could also be used to get people out of their chairs , and to get them to play some kind of game together to control their health better .
next week , this is the market .
there &apos;s going to be this little blood pressure device that you attach to an iphone or something .
and it will allow people to measure their blood pressure from home , send it to their doctor and share it with others , for example , for a little over 100 dollars .
at this point , the patients come into play , not only can they take control again , be captains on their own ship , but they can also help us with health care in the face of the challenges that we face , and the cost explosion of health care , double-demand , and so on .
make methods that are easy to use , and start to hug patients on the team .
we &apos;re going to turn it on , and we &apos;re going to be able to collect the first data in june or july , and continue our journey to figure out what the building blocks of the universe are .
and they can do that through these sorts of methods , but also crowdsourcing .
and one of the things we &apos;ve done is to share with you a quick video .
we have all the navigation systems in our cars .
maybe even in our cell phones .
we know exactly where all the atms around maastricht are .
we know another one where all the gas stations are .
and sure enough , we can find fast food chains .
but where would the next aed be to help this patient ?
we were asking around , and nobody knew .
no one knew where the next life-saving aed was at that moment .
now , of course , in a way , such accidents , again , the debate is about the value of science and engineering on these limits . it &apos;s easy to reject .
so , what did we do ? we did crowdsourcing in the netherlands .
we built a website , and we asked a crowd of people , &quot; if you see an aed , please share with us where he is , when he &apos;s up , &quot; because sometimes he &apos;s closed during business , of course .
and over 10,000 aeds were already reported in the netherlands .
the next step was to find the apps for this .
and we created an ipad app .
we &apos;ve developed an app for layar , augmented reality to find these aeds .
and if you &apos;re in a city like maastricht and someone collapses , you can use your iphone , and within the next few weeks your microsoftware cell phone to find the next aed that can save lives .
and today , we want to introduce this not only as aed4u , as the product is called , but also as aed4us .
and we want to bring this to a global level .
and we ask our colleagues around the world , from other universities , to help us behave like nodes , to crowdsource these aeds around the world .
i think the fact that it &apos;s so hard , the fact that we reach beyond our limits , is the value of things like the lhc .
and if you &apos;re on vacation and someone collapses , whether it &apos;s your own relativity or anyone else , you can find an aed like that .
the other thing we want to ask for is that companies around the world are helping us to confirm these aeds .
these could be copied services , or technicians , for example , just to make sure that the reported aed is still in its place .
please help us to try to improve health , not only to improve health , but to take control of it .
thank you .
today i &apos;m going to report on unexpected discoveries .
i work in the solar technology industry .
and my little startup wants us to force ourselves to protect the environment by ...
... it &apos;s paying attention to crowdsourcing .
here &apos;s a quick video of what we &apos;re doing .
i &apos;m going to leave my final words to an english scientist . humphrey davy , who , i suspect , defended the useless experiments of his teaching , his apprentice was michael faraday , said , &quot; nothing is so dangerous for the development of the human mind , than to assume that our scientific beliefs are finally valid , that there are no mysteries in nature , that our triumphs are complete , and that there are no new worlds to conquer . &quot;
oh . a moment .
it might take time for it to be loaded .
now -- we can just jump that over -- i &apos;ll just jump the video instead ...
no .
that &apos;s not ...
okay .
the spirits can be put up by the great water , answers to the rhythm of the dance , to deny the soul of the living temporary , so that the akolyth becomes a brief shiny moment to god .
solar technology is ...
oh , my time &apos;s over ?
okay . thank you very much .
so a few years ago , i started a program to get the stars in technology and design to take a year off and work in an environment that &apos;s pretty much everything that they actually hate , we &apos;ve let them work in government .
thank you .
the program is called &quot; code for america , &quot; and it &apos;s a little bit like the geeks peacekeepers .
we select some fellows every year , and we let them work with city management .
instead of sending them to the third world , we &apos;re going to send them to the city user .
and there they developed great apps , working with urban workers .
but what they really do is to show what technology is possible today .
so , meet al .
al is a hydrant in the city of boston .
here it looks like he &apos;s looking for a date , but what he &apos;s really looking for is somebody who &apos;s releasing him when he &apos;s in the room , because he knows he &apos;s not very good at the fire fight when he &apos;s covered by a meter of snow .
how did he get to look for help in this particular way ?
we had a team of fellows in boston last year at the program called the code for america .
i &apos;m a writer .
they were there in february , and it &apos;s done a lot of work last february .
and they realized that the city would never open these hydrants freely .
but a particular fellow , a guy named erik ith ober , noticed something else , and that was that the residents were freely shredding the sidewalks , right in front of these parts .
so he did what any good developer would do , he wrote an app .
it &apos;s a nice little app where you can adopt a hydrant .
you agreed to cheat him freely when it snows .
if you do that , you can give him a name , and he called the first al .
if you don &apos;t do that , somebody can take it away .
so there &apos;s a nice little game dynamic .
this is a modest little app .
writing books is my profession , but of course it &apos;s more than that .
it &apos;s probably the smallest of the 21 apps that the fellows wrote last year .
but it does something that no other government technology does .
it &apos;s rapidly spreading .
there &apos;s this guy in the i.t. section of the city of honolulu who saw that he could use this app , not for snow , but for the citizens to adopt tsunami sirens .
it &apos;s very important that these tsunami sirens work , but people steal the batteries .
so he got the citizens to check them .
and then seattle decided to use the app to get the citizens to clean up the clogged gullys .
and chicago has just introduced them so that people can open up the burial climbs when they &apos;re snowing .
we now know nine cities that are planning to use this app .
and it &apos;s spread , organically , of course .
it &apos;s also my great , lifelong love and fascination .
if you know something about government technology , you know it doesn &apos;t usually work that way .
so software recovery typically takes a few years .
we had a team that worked on a project in boston last year that took three people two and a half months .
it was about a method that parents can find out what the right public schools are for their children .
we were told later that if it went over the normal channels , it would have taken over two million dollars , and it would have cost over two million dollars .
and that &apos;s nothing yet .
there &apos;s a project right now in the california justice that the taxpayers have cost two billion dollars so far , and it doesn &apos;t work .
and there are projects like this at every level of government .
so an app that &apos;s written in a few days , and then it &apos;s spread out by rarely , is a kind of shot from the bug to the government institution .
it shows how the government could work better -- not more like a private company , how many people think it should work .
and i don &apos;t expect that to ever change .
and not even like a technology company , but rather like the internet itself .
and that means free access , which means open and productive .
and that &apos;s important .
but what &apos;s more important about this app is that it represents a new generation that tackles the problem of government -- not as the problem of a sale institution , but as a problem of collective action .
and this is a very good news , because it turns out we &apos;re very good at collective action with digital technology .
now there &apos;s a big community of people who make the tools that we need to actually put things together .
it &apos;s not just &quot; code for america &quot; fellows , there are hundreds of people all over the country who stand up and write government apps every day in their own communities .
they didn &apos;t give up the government .
they &apos;re terribly frustrated with her , but they don &apos;t complain about it , they fix it .
and these people know something that we &apos;ve lost from the eyes .
however , recently , something weird has happened in my life and my career that has led me to completely rethink my relationship to this work .
and that &apos;s when you forget all your feelings about politics and the snake at work and all the other things that we &apos;re really excited about is government , at the core , in the words of tim o &apos;reilly , &quot; what we &apos;re doing together that we can &apos;t do alone . &quot;
today , a lot of people have given up the government .
and if you &apos;re one of those people , i ask you to think about it , because things are changing .
the politics doesn &apos;t change ; the government is in change .
and because the government finally exhausts their power from us -- remember , &quot; we the people ? &quot; -- as we think about it , will affect how this change happens .
i didn &apos;t know very much about government when i started this program .
and like a lot of people , i thought that the government was mostly about choosing people into an amt .
now , after two years , i &apos;ve come to the conclusion that it &apos;s all about community communities , it &apos;s all about thylacines .
this is the call center for service and information .
that &apos;s where you usually come out when you call in your city 311 .
this strange event was that i recently wrote a book -- a biography called the &quot; eat , pray , love &quot; -- which , unlike all my previous books , for some reason , went out into the world and became a big mega-event , international bestseller thing .
if you ever have the chance to work in your urban call center , like our fellow scott silverman , as part of the program -- in fact , they all do -- you &apos;ll see that people , the government , are calling for many different problems , including that there &apos;s a thylacine in their house .
so scott gets this fruit .
he &apos;s typing &quot; thylacines &quot; into the official database .
and he doesn &apos;t really have an idea . he starts with the animal beginner .
and finally , he says , &quot; look , can you just open all the doors in your house and play very noisy music and see if the livestock is shrinking ? &quot;
and that worked . applause for scott .
but that wasn &apos;t the end of the thylacines .
boston doesn &apos;t just have a call center .
it has an app , a web and cell phone app , called citizens connect .
we didn &apos;t write this app .
the result is that , no matter where i come from , i &apos;m treated as if i was refused to go .
this is the work of very smart people at the office of the new urban mechanics in boston .
one day -- this is an actual report -- came in : &quot; thylacines in my trash bin . can &apos;t tell if it &apos;s dead .
how do i get them away ? &quot;
but what happens to citizens connect is different .
scott was talking about human to human .
but on citizens connect , it &apos;s all public , so everybody can see it .
and in this case , it was a neighbor .
and the next post we got was , &quot; i went over there , found the trash ton behind the house .
thylacines ? yes . alive ? yap .
turn the landfill on the side . went home .
good night , sweet thylacines . &quot;
seriously -- refusing to the decrease !
pretty simple .
this is great . this is where the digital hits the physical .
and it &apos;s also a good example of how the government gets into crowdsourcing .
but it &apos;s also a great example of government as a platform .
and i don &apos;t necessarily mean a technical definition of the platform .
i &apos;m more likely to talk about a platform for people to help themselves and to help others .
a citizen helped another citizen , but the government here played a central role .
she connected these two people .
and you could have been able to connect them with government services if they were needed , but a neighbor is a much better and cheaper alternative to state services .
for example , you get very concerned about me and say , &quot; don &apos;t you fear you &apos;re never going to overcome that success ?
if one neighbor helps the other , we strengthen our communities .
if we call the animal beginner , it costs a lot of money .
one of the most important things is that we have to think about it , is that government is not the same as politics .
and most people understand that , but they think that one is the input of the other .
so the voodooists like to say , &quot; you guys go to church and talk about god .
that our contribution to the system is to choose .
how often did we choose a political leader -- and sometimes we used a lot of energy to choose a new political leader -- and then we reject ourselves , and we expect that the government , reflecting our values and fulfilling our needs , and then not much has changed ?
this is because the government is like a further ocean , and politics is the top 15 inches .
and what &apos;s below that is what we call bureaucracy .
and we use this word with such contempt .
but it &apos;s this contempt that this thing that we have , and that we pay for , that allows us to be something that works against us , something else , and then we made ourselves out .
are you not afraid that you &apos;re going to write your whole life on and never create a book that anyone in the world cares about ? never again ?
people seem to think , politics is sexy .
if we want this institution to work for us , we have to make bureaucracy sexy .
because that &apos;s where the actual government work is happening .
we need to rely on the machinery of government .
so the occupythesi movement did it .
did you see these guys ?
it &apos;s a group of troubled citizens who wrote a very detailed 325 page report , who is an answer to the sec-memo legislation to the financial reform .
that &apos;s not being politically active , that &apos;s bureaucratic .
now , for those of us who have given up the government , it &apos;s time for us to think about the world that we want to leave our children .
you have to imagine the enormous challenges that they have to face .
okay , that &apos;s really courageous .
do we really believe that we can do what we need to do without improving the institution that can act on behalf of all of us ?
a government is absolutely necessary , but it has to get more efficient .
the good news is that technology makes it possible to fundamentally reconstruct the function of government in a way that can actually do something by strengthening society .
and there &apos;s a generation that &apos;s grown up with the internet , and it knows that it &apos;s not that hard to do things together , you just have to build systems right .
now the average age of our fellows is 28 , so i &apos;m , unfortunately , almost one generation older than most of you .
this is a generation that grew up seeing their voice for granted .
they don &apos;t fight this fight that we all fight , which is who can talk ; they all can talk .
you can make your mind , on every channel at any time , and you do .
so , if you &apos;re faced with the problem of government , don &apos;t worry so much about using your voices .
they use their hands .
but it would be worse if i didn &apos;t remember that over 20 years ago , when i first told a teenager that i wanted to be a writer who was confronted with the same kind of anxious response .
they use their hands to write applications that improve government work .
and these apps let us use our hands to improve our communities .
this may be to open up a hydrant , to hunt weeds , to turn a trash can around with a thylacine .
and sure enough , we could have released these hydrants all the time , and a lot of people do that .
but these apps are like little digital memories that we &apos;re not just consumers , and we &apos;re not just consumers of government who pay taxes and receive services .
we are more than that , we are citizens .
and we &apos;re not going to improve government until we improve citizenship .
so the question i have for all of you here : when it comes to the big , important things that we need to do together , all together , are we just going to be a lot of voices , or are we going to be a lot of hands ?
thank you .
my role usually is to explain to people how wonderful the new technologies that are coming up are going to be , and i thought , as i &apos;m here with friends , i would tell you what i really think , and also try to look back and understand what &apos;s really going on here , these incredible jumps forward , which are so fast that we can hardly keep up with .
people said , are you not afraid to succeed ?
i &apos;m going to start by just showing you a single boring slide .
... you could just show the slide for a second .
this is a slide that i randomly chose from my folder .
i &apos;m not talking about the details of the slide , but rather the general form .
this slide shows data from an analysis of us about the performance of risc processors versus the performance of a local area network .
what &apos;s interesting here is that this slide , like some of the others that we often meet in our field , is a kind of a semi-logarithmic curve .
in other words , every step here is equivalent to a potential in the scale of performance .
and this is a novelty that we need to use this guy &apos;s scale on semi-logarithmic curves in the field of technology .
something very strange happens here .
this is basically what i &apos;m going to talk about here .
are you not afraid that the humiliation of a statement is killing you ?
so , if you could turn on the light again , please .
a little bit brighter , because i &apos;m going to draw something on the paper right here .
now , why do we draw graphs in technology on semi-logarithmic curves ?
the reason for that is , if i were to draw it on a normal curve , where , say , these are the years , so the timeline of a kind , and this is a random measure of the technology that i want to show with a graph , then the graph gets silly .
they look like this .
and that doesn &apos;t tell us much .
now , if i wanted to record another technology , let &apos;s say , a transportation technology , it would be very unreasonable on the semi-logarithmic scale , in the form of a flat line .
but if something like this happens , it changes the qualitative circumstances .
so if transportation technology continued as fast as the microprocessor technology would , then we could get into a taxi tomorrow , and in 30 seconds we would be in tokyo .
but it &apos;s not that fast .
don &apos;t you worry that you &apos;re going to go through your life and never come out of it , and that you &apos;re going to die on a scrap of dreams -- your mouth filled with the bitter ashes of failure ?
this has never been in the history of technology development , this kind of recursive growth , where the scale of each few years increases exponentially .
the question i want to ask you now is , if you look at these exponential curves , you see , they don &apos;t go on forever .
it &apos;s not possible that everything is going on forever and forever as fast as it is .
there are two options .
either it &apos;s going to be a classic s-curve like this , until something completely new comes in , or it &apos;s going to happen here .
it &apos;s kind of like that .
now , i &apos;m an optimist , so i think something like this is going to happen .
if that &apos;s really what it means , we &apos;re in the middle of a transition right now .
we are here on this line , in a transition from the world now to a new kind of world .
so the question i want to ask , and i often ask myself , is , how is this new world going to be ?
it &apos;s like , you know .
what is this new state that is slowly accepting the world ?
because the transition seems to be very , very confusing when you &apos;re in the middle .
when i was a kid , there was the future somewhere in the year 2000 , and people often talked about what would happen in the year 2000 .
now , here we have a conference where people are talking about the future , and you realize that the future is still the year 2000 .
further than that , we don &apos;t go .
so in other words , the future has been shrinking by a year since i was in this world .
i think the reason is that we realize that there &apos;s something going on .
the transition is happening . we can all feel it .
and we know that right now it just doesn &apos;t make sense to try and look 30 or 50 years into the future , because everything will be so different that a simple wedding of what we &apos;re doing now simply doesn &apos;t make sense .
now i want to talk about what this might be , this transition that we &apos;re in right now .
the answer -- the short answer to all of these questions is , yes .
to do this , i &apos;m going to first talk about some other things that really have nothing to do with technology or computers .
because i think in order to really understand this , we have to step back and look at the thing on a longer scale of time .
and that is , i want to look at this on the time scale of the life of the earth .
i think the whole picture makes sense if you divide it into a few billion steps .
so let &apos;s go back , and that &apos;s 2.5 billion years . the earth was a big , sterile stone clump with a lot of chemicals floating on it .
now , if you look at the way these chemicals were organized , it gives us a pretty good picture of how they did that .
i also think there are theories that are starting to understand how it all started with rna , but i &apos;m going to tell you a simplified story about which is that at that time , there were little oil droplet that had different kinds of recipes for chemicals .
some of these oil droplet contains a special combination of chemicals that allowed them to integrate other chemicals from outside and grow .
everybody who was like that started to divide .
these little oil droplet were in the sense the most primitive cell form .
yeah , i &apos;m afraid of all these things .
but these oil droplet weren &apos;t about living in today &apos;s sense , because each one of them was just a small , random recipe of chemicals .
and every time it divided , the chemicals in it have spread to unequal quantities .
so each droplet was a little bit different .
in fact , the droplet grew , which had one for the growth of optimal composition faster than others , and integrated more and more chemicals from outside , and divided faster .
so these were tilted to survive longer , and they were multiplied at a larger scale .
so this is just a very simple chemical form of life , but what &apos;s more interesting is when these dropts learned a trick about abstraction .
in some way that we don &apos;t really understand yet , these dropts have learned the ability to write down information .
they &apos;ve learned to store the recipe of the cell as information in a particular chemical form that we call dna .
in other words , they have found a way in this mindless , evolutionary way that allowed them to attribute defeat what they were made of , so that this information could be stored and copied .
and the amazing thing about this is that this way of storing information over the time of 2.5 billion years that it was made was the same .
and i always had that .
in fact , the recipe for us , which is our genes , the exact same code and the same type of writing .
and each creature uses exactly the same letters and the same code .
we &apos;re so far as to the point of pleasure that we can write even things in this code .
we dance in the temple and we become god . &quot;
and i &apos;ve got 100 micrograms here of a white powder , which i try to keep in airports from security workers .
it &apos;s in there -- what i &apos;ve done is i &apos;ve taken this code -- the code is made up of normal letters , which we use to symbolize -- and i &apos;ve written my business card on a piece of dna , and i &apos;ve amplified it 10 safe22 times .
so if somebody wants a hundred million copies of my business card , i have enough for everyone in this room and even for everyone in the world , and it &apos;s right here .
if i had actually been a selfish , i would have written it on a virus and released it into the room .
so what &apos;s the next step ?
the demise of dna was an interesting step .
and that made these cells -- that made them happy for another billion years .
and i &apos;m very afraid of a lot more things that no one would know .
but then another very interesting step , where things became completely different , and that is that these cells started communicating and exchanging information , so that communities of cells emerged .
i don &apos;t know if you knew that , but bacteria can actually exchange their dna .
that &apos;s also why , for example , the durability of antibiotics grows .
some bacteria have figured out how to stay away from penicillin , and they &apos;ve written this information with other bacteria into the dna , and now we have a lot of bacteria that are resistant to penicillin , because the bacteria communicate with each other .
now this communication allowed for the reasons of communities that were in a sense the same boat ; they were synergetic .
so they either survived together , or they went down together , and that meant that if a community was successful , all the individuals in the community were more likely to be repeated and preferred by evolution .
the transition is now where these communities were so close together that they decided to write the recipe for the whole community into a drawing chain on the dna .
and the next interesting phase took about another billion years .
at this point , we have multi-cellular communities , communities of many different cell types , which together act as a single organism .
in fact , we &apos;re also a multi-celled community .
like algae -- and other scary things .
we have a lot of cells that are no longer on their own .
your skin cells are useless without heart cells , muscle cells , brain cells and so on .
so these communities started to evolve , so that the level in which evolution happened was no longer the single cell , but the whole cell community that we call organism .
the next step has now happened within these communities .
the cell communities started to abstract information again .
and they developed special structures that didn &apos;t do anything but process information within the organism .
and these are the neural structures .
so the neurons are the information processing system that these cell communities have built .
they started to educate specialists within the community , special structures , which were responsible for learning , understanding and holding information .
and this was the brain and the nervous system of these communities .
but when it comes to writing , i &apos;ve been thinking about it recently , and i wonder , why ?
this gave them an evolutionary advantage .
because at this point , an individual -- learning happened within the time period of a single organism &apos;s lifespan , rather than that evolutionary time period .
so an organism could learn , for example , not to eat a particular fruit because it tasted bad and made it sick , the last time it ate it .
now , this could happen within the lifetime of a single organism , whereas it took hundreds of thousands of years before that , because this information had to be evolutionarily learned by the individuals who died because of this fruit , because these information processing structures were not there yet .
so the nervous system has the evolutionary process with this particular information structure , because evolution could now happen within an individual .
it could happen within a time of learning .
what happened after that is that the individual organisms found a way to communicate with each other .
as an example , the most sophisticated version of this kind of communication is human language .
it &apos;s a pretty amazing invention when you think about it .
i have a very complicated , disordered and confused idea in my head .
is that reasonable ?
i &apos;m sitting here , and i &apos;m basically giving basic sounds of me , hoping to create a similar confused idea in your head , which has a kind of resemblance with my original idea .
so we take something very complicated , we turn it into sound , a sequence of sound , and we produce something very complicated in the head of others .
so this is now allowing us to work again as a unified organism .
and what we actually did , we , humanity , is we started to abstract .
we go through the same stages that multi-cellular organisms have gone through -- the abstraction of our methods , how we hold data , present it .
for example , the invention of language was a small step in this direction .
telephones , computers , video monitors , cd roms and so on are all our specialized mechanisms that we built in our community to be able to handle this information .
and it connects all of us together to something much bigger , and also able to evolve faster than we have been .
so today , evolution can happen in the time period of microseconds .
you also saw ty &apos;s little evolutionary example where he showed a little bit of evolution in the convolution program , right in front of your eyes .
is it logical that someone should be expected to have the fear of doing the work that they feel like they &apos;re doing ?
so now we speed up the timeline again .
the first steps in history , which i told you , took a billion years per piece .
the next steps , like the nervous system and the brain , took a few hundred million years .
then the next steps , like language and so on , took less than a million years .
and these next steps , like electronics , seem to take a few decades .
the process feeds itself and becomes , i think , auto-catalytic is the word for it -- when something increases its speed of change .
the more it changes , the faster it changes .
and i think that &apos;s what we &apos;re seeing here in this explosion curve .
we see the process that feeds itself .
i live professionally from building computers , and i know that i could not use the mechanism that i use to build computers without the recent advances in computer technology .
and what &apos;s going on with the creative enterprises that they make us insecure about each other &apos;s state of mind -- in a way that other profits don &apos;t do ?
my current activity is to design objects with such a high complexity , that it &apos;s impossible for me to design them in traditional sense .
i don &apos;t know what every single transistor does in the connection machine .
it has billions of these .
what i do instead , and what the designers of thinking machines do , is we think at a certain level of abstraction , we give this machine over , and the machine does something that exceeds our skills far , better and faster than we could ever do it ourselves .
and it does it in part with methods that we don &apos;t even really understand .
one way that &apos;s particularly interesting , and which i &apos;ve used a lot lately , is evolution itself .
and we &apos;re installing an evolutionary process in the machine that &apos;s going on in the micro-second area .
so to give you an example , in the most extreme cases , we can create a program that &apos;s made out of random instructions .
we say , &quot; computers , please generate a hundred million randomly selected sequences of instructions .
now , please run all of these randomly elected instructions , run all of the programs , and then finally choose the ones that are closest to my presentations . &quot;
my father , for example , was a chemist , and i can &apos;t remember a situation in his 40 years as a chemist who was asked if he was afraid to be a chemist .
so in other words , i first define what i want .
let &apos;s say i want to make numbers , that would be a simple example that i &apos;ve already used for it .
so find programs that can sort the most abundant numbers .
of course , the chance in random instructions is very small , that by accident , they &apos;re going to rank numbers , so probably none of the instructions will actually do this .
but one of them likes to put two numbers in the right order with some luck .
now i say , &quot; computers , now take the 10 percent of the sequences that have come the closest to my presents .
store this off , delete the rest .
now , all the remaining reproducers that the numbers have best sorted .
and that is , with a method of recombination , analog to reproduce . &quot;
take two programs , and they make children through the exchange of their subroutines , and the children inherit the features of the subroutines of the two programs .
with your chemist blockage , john -- how are you going to do that ?
so now i have a new generation of programs that have come from combinations of programs that have come a little bit closer to the presentations of others .
say , &quot; please repeat this process . &quot;
reevaluating them .
maybe introduce some mutations .
and try this again with another generation .
all of these generations just take a few milliseconds .
and so i can have evolution go through a million years in the computer within a few minutes , or more complicated cases , a few hours .
finally , i get programs that can make numbers perfect .
in fact , these programs are so much more efficient than any program i could have ever written by hand .
so if i look at these programs , i can &apos;t tell you how they work .
it just didn &apos;t seem like , you know ?
i tried to understand them .
these are obscure and weird programs .
but they do the job .
and i know , and i &apos;m sure they &apos;re doing the job , because they come from a series of hundreds of thousands of programs that have done the job .
because their lives depended on whether they did the job right .
i sat in a 747 together with marvin minsky , and he pulled out a map and said , &quot; oh look . look at that .
it says , &quot; this airplane is made up of hundreds of thousands of pieces that work together to make their flight safer . &apos; doesn &apos;t that make you more confident ? &quot;
we know that a process of development is not optimal when it becomes too complicated .
so we &apos;re starting to rely on computers for a process which is very different from classic engineering .
it allows us to produce things with a much higher complexity than the normal methods would allow us to produce .
but to be fair -- the group of chemists over the centuries have not received the reputation of alcohol manic depression .
and yet , we don &apos;t quite understand the possibilities of this yet .
so , in a sense , technology is overwhelming us .
now we use these programs to make computers much faster , so that we &apos;re able to do these processes even faster .
so it comes up with a feedback .
it &apos;s getting faster and faster , and i think that &apos;s why it seems so confusing .
because all these new technologies today are feeding themselves .
and because you &apos;re obsessed , you &apos;re taken in by the mind . how can you be harmed ?
we &apos;re going to take off .
we &apos;ve come to a point where the analog is then , as a one-cell organism , evolved into multi-cellular organisms .
so we &apos;re the amoeba , and we can &apos;t quite figure out what the hell we &apos;re actually creating here .
we &apos;re in the middle of this transition point .
but we seem to have this kind of call , but not just the writers , but the creative of all the genres , it seems to have this reputation to be mentally immensely unstable .
but i really believe that something else comes after us .
i think it &apos;s very tirelessly to say that we are the end product of evolution .
and i think we all here are part of the creation of whatever comes next .
now , lunch is before , and i think i &apos;m going to stop here before i get chosen .
my story starts right here in rajasthan , about two years ago .
i was under the stars in the desert with sufi singers of mukhtiar ali .
we talked about the fact that nothing has changed since the time of the ancient indian age of mahabharata .
when we wanted to travel indians , we jumped into a car and swirl over the sky .
now we &apos;re doing this with airplanes .
at the time , when the great indian warrior prince had thirst arjuna , he took a bow , shot into the ground and water .
all you have to do is look at the bitter death numbers of really great minds alone in the 20th century , who died young and often by their own hand .
now we &apos;re doing this with drillers and machines .
we came to the conclusion that magic and magic were replaced by machines .
that made me really sad .
i got a little scared of technology .
it scared me that i could lose the ability to enjoy the sunset without a camera and without a tweet to my friends .
i found that technology should make magic possible and not kill .
when i was a little girl , my grandfather gave me his little silver pocket clock .
this piece of 50-year-old technology became the most magical thing for me .
she became a golden access to a world full of pirates and unhappy ships and images in my mind .
it seemed to me that our fancy clocks and cameras were dreaming about it .
and even those who didn &apos;t actually do suicide seemed to have been really neglected by their talents .
they stopped us from being inspired .
and so i went into the world of technology to see how i could use it to enable magic instead of killing .
at 16 , i started illustrating books .
when i saw the ipad , i saw it as a storytelling device that can connect readers all over the world .
it can know how we hold it .
it can know where we are .
it brings images and text together , and animation , sound and touch .
storytelling needs more and more senses .
but what do we do with this ?
i &apos;m just going to go to khoya , an interactive ipad app .
norman mailer said just before he died in his last interview : every one of my books killed me a little bit further .
here it says , &quot; put your fingers on every light . &quot;
and so -- here it says , &quot; this box belongs ... &quot; i write my name .
and i &apos;m going to be a character in the book .
again and again , a letter for me falls down -- and the ipad knows where i live -- it &apos;s really addressed to me .
the child in me is really excited about such opportunities .
i talked a lot about magic .
i don &apos;t mean magicians and dragons , i mean the magic of childhood , the ideas that we all had as children .
fireflies in a glass were always quite exciting to me .
so here you have to tip the ipad out the fireflies .
and they &apos;re lighting the way through the rest of the book .
an extraordinary statement that you can make about your life &apos;s work .
another idea that fascinated me as a child is that a whole galaxy can be in a single marble .
and so here , every book and world is going to be a little marble that i &apos;m going to draw here to the magic device in the device .
and this opens up a map .
fantasy books have always had maps , but these cards were static .
this map grows and glows and serves for guidance in the rest of the book .
it also shows up in other places in the book .
i &apos;m going in here .
it &apos;s also important for me to create something that is indian , but it &apos;s also very time-consumed .
these are the apsaras .
we &apos;ve all heard of fees and nymphen , but how many people outside india know their indian colleagues , the apsaras ?
but we don &apos;t even shrink when we hear somebody say this , because we &apos;ve known this kind of statement for so long , and somehow we &apos;ve come to the notion that creativity and suffering somehow come together and that art -- at the end -- always leads to the soul qual .
the poor apsaras were trapped in indras for thousands of years in an old book .
and we bring them back in a contemporary story for children .
a story that deals with new issues , like the environmental crisis .
the environmental crisis , a big problem over the last 10 years is that kids are in their rooms , they &apos;re on their computers , they &apos;re not going to go out .
but now , with mobile technology , we can take our children into the natural world with their technology .
in an interaction of the book , you &apos;re sent to a search . you have to go out and collect natural objects with the camera of the ipad .
as a child , i had collections of sticks , rocks , tiles and shells .
somehow , kids don &apos;t do it anymore .
this childhood ritual is brought back . you have to go out and take a picture of a flower in a chapter .
in another chapter , you have to photograph and tag a piece of tree inde .
the question i want to ask everyone here today is , is this idea completely fine for you ?
so you actually create a digital collection of photos that you can then put online .
a child in london shows the picture of a fuck and says , &quot; oh , i &apos;ve seen a fox today . &quot;
a child in india says , &quot; i &apos;ve seen a monkey today . &quot;
this creates a kind of social network around a digital collection of photos that you actually took .
there are a number of ways that magic can connect the world and technology .
in the next book , we &apos;re planning an interaction where you use the video of the ipad , and through augmented reality , you see an animation of 11 that appears on a plant in front of the house .
in one place , the screen is filled with leaves .
you have to make the sound of the wind , blow it away , read the rest of the book .
we all move to a world where the natural forces of technology can get closer and closer in the magic and technology .
we use the energy of the sun .
do you feel comfortable with that ? because with one centimeter of distance , i don &apos;t feel comfortable with that notion at all .
we bring our children and ourselves closer to the natural world and to the magic , fun and the love of our childhood through the simple medium of a story .
thank you .
this is really an extraordinary honor for me .
i spend most of my time with people in research , prisons or death cells .
i spend most of my time with the most socially weakest in the social settlements and in places where there &apos;s a lot of hopelessness .
being here at ted , seeing and hearing how stimulating that is , has given me a lot of power .
in the short run here , i realized one thing : ted has an identity .
you can say things here that have a global impact .
and sometimes , when something comes to ted , it gets a meaning and a force that otherwise wouldn &apos;t have .
i say that because i think identity is very important .
i find them disgusting .
we &apos;ve seen some fantastic presentations .
i think we &apos;ve learned that the words of a teacher matter , but the words of a dedicated teacher are particularly meaningful .
as a doctor , you can do good . as a doctor , you can do more .
and so i want to talk about the power of identity .
i didn &apos;t learn this as a lawyer in my work , by the way .
i learned this from my grandmother .
i became big in a family , a traditional african-american household , dominated by a matriarch , and this matriarch was my grandmother .
she was a keyboard , strong woman , she had an effect .
she had the last word in every family &apos;s argument .
it was also the origin of many disputes in our family .
and i find them dangerous . and i don &apos;t want to watch them be taken over to the next century .
she was the daughter of a slave family .
their parents were born in virginia in the 1840s as slaves .
she was born in 1880 , and the experience of slavery shaped her world view very much .
my grandmother was strong , but she was also loving .
when i met her as a young boy , she came up to me and hugged me .
she pushed me so hard that i could hardly breathe , and then she let me go .
look at these amazing demonstrations : voodoo akolyths in a trancestate that includes the glowing coal without burn , an astonishing illustration of the ability to affect the body so that it holds out when it &apos;s put into a state of extreme arousal .
one or two hours later , when i met her , she came up to me and said , &quot; bryan , do you feel my hugging ? &quot;
and when i said , &quot; no , &quot; she would hug me again . when i said , &quot; yes , &quot; she left me alone .
and she was doing something that you always wanted to be close to her .
the only problem was that she had 10 children .
i think it &apos;s better if we encourage our great creative agents to live .
my mother was the youngest of her 10 children .
sometimes , if i wanted to spend time with her , it was hard to get her attention .
my cousins were running around everywhere .
i remember , i must have been eight or nine , that i woke up one morning and went to the living room , all my cousins were running around .
my grandmother was sitting at the end of the room , staring at me .
first , i thought that was a game .
i looked at her and smiled , but she looked very serious .
it went like 15 or 20 minutes . then she got up and she came over to me . she took me by the hand and said , &quot; come on , bryan . you and i , we have to talk . &quot;
i remember when it was yesterday .
i &apos;ll never forget it .
and i definitely know that , for me , in my situation , it would be very dangerous to start this dark path of presumption , to sort of shrink down -- especially in the circumstances in which i &apos;m in my career right now .
she took me outside and said , &quot; bryan , i &apos;m going to tell you something , but you have to promise you &apos;re not going to tell it . &quot;
i said , &quot; promise , grandma . &quot;
she said , &quot; honoring ? &quot; i said , &quot; yes . &quot;
she sat me down and looked at me . she said , &quot; i want you to know i watched you . &quot;
she said , &quot; i think you &apos;re special . &quot;
she said , &quot; i think you can do anything you want to do . &quot;
i &apos;ll never forget that .
then she said , &quot; you just have to promise me three things , bryan . &quot;
i said , &quot; ok , grandma . &quot;
she said , &quot; first of all , i promise you will always love your mom . &quot;
that means -- look , i &apos;m pretty young . i &apos;m only about 40 years old .
she said , &quot; your mom is my baby , and you have to promise you &apos;re going to take care of her all the time . &quot;
i adored my mother , so i said , &quot; yeah , grandmother , i &apos;m going to do that . &quot;
then she said , &quot; next , i promise you will always do the right thing , &quot; even if it &apos;s hard to do the right thing . &quot;
and i thought , and i said , &quot; yeah , grandmother . i promise . &quot;
and finally , she said , &quot; the last thing you have to promise me is , &quot; you will never drink alcohol . &quot;
well , i was nine years old , so i said , &quot; yeah , grandmother . i promise . &quot;
i grew up on the land , in the old , rural south , and i have a brother who &apos;s a year older and a year of younger sister .
when i was about 14 or 15 , my brother came home one day and brought this sixpack beer with him grabbed my sister and me and went to the forest with us .
we were just albering around there as well as the other thing .
then he took a sip of beer , and he offered one of my sister , and she assumed , and then she offered me one .
i may have another 40 years of work in me .
i said , &quot; no , no , no . all right . just do it . i don &apos;t want a beer . &quot;
my brother said , &quot; well , do it . today we do it , you do everything we do .
i had something , your sister had something . go , drink a beer . &quot;
i said , &quot; i don &apos;t want to . just do it . just do it . &quot;
my brother stared at me .
he said , &quot; what &apos;s going on with you ? well , drink something . &quot;
and then he looked in my face , and he said , &quot; oh no , you &apos;re still not going to do you crazy because of the conversation with grandmother ? &quot;
i said , &quot; what are you talking about ? &quot;
he said , &quot; grandma tells all the grandchildren that they are special . &quot;
i was devastated .
and it &apos;s extremely likely that everything that i &apos;m going to write from now on is reviewed by the world as the work that came out of my last book , right ?
i &apos;m going to tell you something .
i probably shouldn &apos;t do that .
this may be transmitted publicly .
i &apos;m 52 years old , and i &apos;m confessed that i &apos;ve never drunk a drop of alcohol .
i don &apos;t say that because i think it &apos;s virtuous . i say that because identity is power .
if we create the right kind of identity , we can tell the people around us things that they don &apos;t believe first .
we can get them to do things that they thought they couldn &apos;t .
of course , my grandmother would say to all of her grandchildren that they are special .
my grandfather was in prison during the prohibition .
my uncles died of alcohol diseases .
i say it straight , because we &apos;re all kind of friends here -- it &apos;s very likely that my biggest success is behind me .
and she believed that these are the topics that we need to care about .
i tried to say something about our judicial system .
this country is different from 40 years ago .
in 1972 , 300,000 people were in prison and in prison .
today , it &apos;s 2.3 million .
the united states today has the highest incarceration rate in the world .
seven million people are dismissed on currency or with conditional punishment .
in my opinion , mass incarcerations have fundamentally changed our world .
in social weak and black parts of the population , there is despair and hopelessness because of these changes .
one out of three male black men between 18 and 30 is in prison , abandoned in prison , on currency or on conditional punishment .
oh , jesus , what a thought !
in urban communities all over the country -- from los angeles to philadelphia , baltimore to washington -- 50 to 60 percent of all black young men are either in prison , in prison , abandoned or in a conditional exposure .
but our system is not only being shaped by questions that have to do with race , it &apos;s also being discarded by poverty .
we have a justice system in this country that they treat much better if they &apos;re rich and guilty than poor and innocent .
wealth , not debt , affects the result .
yet , we seem to be quite satisfied with this .
a politics of fear and anger has convinced us that these problems are not our problems .
we &apos;ve lost touch .
i think that &apos;s interesting .
there are some very interesting developments .
my home state of alabama constantly deprives the right to vote when they &apos;re sentencing them .
these are the kinds of thoughts that can get someone to start drinking gin at nine o &apos;clock in the morning , and i don &apos;t want that .
here and today in alabama , 34 percent of the male black population have lost their right to vote all the time .
we predict that in 10 years , the rate of recognition of civil rights is going to be as high as it is before the election law passed .
silence is earth-numbing .
i represent children .
many of my clients are very young .
the united states of america is the only country in the world that convicts three-10-year-old children to death in prison .
in this country , for children , there are life penalty sentences without conditional punishment .
we already have a lot of procedures .
the only country in the world .
i represent people in death cells .
i &apos;d rather continue doing this work that i love .
the death penalty question is an interesting question .
we think because we &apos;ve been taught that the real question is , did a human being deserve to die for a crime he &apos;s got ?
this is a very sensitive question .
but you can also think about it differently , depending on how we see our identity .
the other view is not : did somebody deserve death for a crime , but : did we deserve to kill ?
i think that &apos;s fascinating .
the death penalty in america is defined by error .
on nine people that we executed , one that we found innocent , which was discharged and released from the death cell .
an amazing error rate . one out of nine innocent .
i think that &apos;s fascinating .
so the question is : how ?
we would never let anyone fly with an airplane if for nine airplanes that would pick up , one would fall down .
but somehow we &apos;re going to get away from this problem .
it &apos;s not our problem .
it &apos;s not our burden .
now , of all the people i &apos;ve met , the sierra nevada de santa marta , in northern colombia , were the most extraordinary .
it &apos;s not our fight .
i &apos;m talking a lot about these questions .
i &apos;m talking about race and the question of whether we have the right to kill .
and it &apos;s exciting because i teach my students african-american history . i talk about slavery .
i &apos;m talking about terrorism , the time at the end of reconstruction , to the beginning of world war ii .
we don &apos;t really know very much about it .
after a while of reflection , it seems to me that , in order to continue writing , i have to design a kind of protective psychological construct .
but for african-americans in this country , it was a time of terror .
in many areas , people were scared of lynchmobs .
or before bombs .
it was the fear of terror that formed their lives .
now these older people come to me and say , &quot; mr , stevenson , you &apos;re talking , you &apos;re giving talks . you &apos;re telling people to stop saying that for the first time in the history of our nation , we have to do with terrorism , after 9 / 11 . &quot;
they say , &quot; no -- tell people that we grew up with it . &quot;
and of course , after terrorism , racing and decades of rapidly motivated submission and apartheid came .
and yet , in our country , there is a dynamic -- we don &apos;t like to talk about our problems .
we don &apos;t like to talk about our story .
and that &apos;s why we don &apos;t really understand the importance of our actions in the historical context .
somehow , from now on , i have to find a way to keep a safe distance between me and my very natural climb on what the reaction will be to writing will be .
we &apos;re constantly bumping each other .
we always create new tensions and conflicts .
we &apos;re hard to talk about race , and i think that &apos;s because we &apos;re not willing to approach the process of truth and reconciliation .
in south africa , people have understood that racing is not to overcome without the willingness to truth and reconciliation .
even after the genocide in rwanda , there was this willingness , but not in this country .
i &apos;ve given some talks in germany about the death penalty .
it was fascinating because one of the scientists stood up after my talk and said , &quot; you know , it &apos;s deeply disturbing to hear you speak like this . &quot;
he said , &quot; there &apos;s no death penalty in germany .
and of course , in germany , it can never be more . &quot;
it got silent . then a woman said , &quot; with our history , it &apos;s impossible that we ever reconcile ourselves for systematic killing of people .
as i &apos;ve been looking for models for this last year to do this , i &apos;ve also been looking for the past , and i &apos;ve been trying to find other societies to see if they might have better or more reasonable ideas about it than we can , how to help creatives deal with the emotional risks associated with creativity .
it would be mindless of us to be aware and targeted to fix people . &quot;
i thought about it .
what it would feel like to live in a world where the german state let people go , especially if there were a lot of jews under it .
it would be intolerable .
it would be mindless .
and yet , here in this country , in the states of the old south , we &apos;re putting people -- here &apos;s the risk of being convicted of death , 11 times higher if the victim is white than if it &apos;s black . 22 times higher , when the charged black is , and the victim is white -- in the same states where the earth is ringing the body of paralyzed people .
and yet , there &apos;s this mental disconnect .
i think our identity is threatened .
if we don &apos;t deal with it , with these hard issues , then the positive and wonderful things are also affected .
we love innovation .
this search led me to the old greece and the old rome .
we love technology and creativity .
we love entertainment .
but eventually , these realities are being overlapped by suffering , abuse , abuse , settlement , exposure .
it seems to me that it &apos;s important to unite both .
but what &apos;s interesting is the unique tone of the song , the rhythm of dance in every culture .
because we ultimately talk about the fact that we need more hope , more engagement , more commitment , to be able to be in a complex world .
for me , that means raising time , thinking and talking about the poor , the disadvantaged , the who will never be at ted .
but thinking in a way that is integrated in our own lives .
we all have to believe at the end of the day things that we can &apos;t see .
we do . as rational as we are , as much as we appreciate intellect .
innovation , creativity , and development is not just coming out of our heads .
please follow me , because the circle will close again .
they come from ideas that are driven by the belief in our hearts .
it &apos;s this head-heart connection that i think drives us not only to be open to all the bright and exciting things , but also to the dark and the problematic things .
vaclav havel , the great czech politician , once said this .
&quot; when we fought in eastern europe against oppression , we wanted everything , but what we needed most was hope , a mental orientation , the willingness to sometimes be in hopeless places and witness . &quot;
this mental orientation is the core of what i think the ted communities need to engage in .
there is no limitation on technology and design that allows us to be fully human , as long as we don &apos;t have eyes and ears for poverty , limitation and injustice .
i want to warn you . this kind of identity requires a lot more of us than if we didn &apos;t care about it .
it will deeply touch you .
as a young lawyer , i have the great privilege of meeting rosa parks .
woman parks kept coming back to montgomery , where she met two of her oldest friends , these older women , johnnie carr , who had organized the montgomery-busykott -- an incredible african-american woman -- and virginia durr , a white woman , whose husband , clifford durr , dr. king .
but in ancient greece and rome , people didn &apos;t believe that creativity comes from people , ok ?
so these women were meeting , and they were just talking .
and every once in a while , ms. carr called me and said , &quot; bryan , ms. parks comes to the city . we want to talk .
do you want to get there and listen ? &quot;
and i said , &quot; yeah , very much . &quot;
she said , &quot; and what are you going to do if you &apos;re here ? &quot;
i said , &quot; i &apos;m going to listen . &quot;
and i went over and i just listened .
it was always so inspiring , so inspiring .
one day , i sat there listening to these women , and after a few hours , woman parks turned to me and said , &quot; now bryan , tell me what the initiative is for equal justice . &quot;
what are you trying to do ? &quot;
they believed that creativity was a kind of divine dienery spirit that comes from a distant , unknown source to people -- for unexplained , unknown reasons .
i started with my usual talk .
i said , &quot; we &apos;re trying to do it against injustice .
wr wants to help people who were innocent .
we want to fight bias and discrimination in the criminal justice system .
we want to eliminate lifelong sentences without conditional punishment for children .
we want to do something about the death penalty .
we want to reduce the number of prisoners .
we want to eliminate mass incarcerations . &quot;
i gave my usual talk , and after that , she looked at me and said , &quot; yum . mhmm . mhmm . &quot;
she said , &quot; that &apos;s going to make you very , very tired . &quot;
the greeks called these divine dienery minds of creativity .
then woman carr leaned in front of me , put a finger on my face and said , &quot; and that &apos;s why you have to be very , very brave . &quot;
and so i think the ted community should be braver .
we need to find ways to address these challenges : these problems , these suffering .
because ultimately , our humanity depends on all of our humanity .
in my work , i learned very simple things .
i learned a few very simple things .
that we &apos;re all more than the worst we &apos;ve ever done .
i think that &apos;s true for every human being on the planet .
when someone lies , they &apos;re not just a liar .
if somebody takes something that doesn &apos;t belong to them , they &apos;re not just a thief .
now , from socrates , he &apos;s known that he believed he had a demonstration that told him that he was farther away .
even if you kill someone , it &apos;s not just a murderer .
and because it is , there is a fundamental human dignity that has to respect the law .
i also believe that in many parts of this country , and certainly in many parts of the world , the opposite of poverty is not wealth .
i don &apos;t think so .
i believe that in too many places , the opposite of poverty is justice .
and finally , i think even though it &apos;s so dramatic , so beautiful and so inspiring , we &apos;re not going to be measured by our technology , not by the things that we &apos;re developing , not by our intellect and our minds .
after all , a society is not measured by how to treat its rich and powerful and privileged society , but by how to deal with the poor , the convicted , the incarcerated .
because in this context , we &apos;re just beginning to understand the really amazing things that make us up .
sometimes i lose the balance . i end up with a story .
sometimes i push too much .
the romans had the same idea , and they called this kind of body loseme of creative spirit a genius .
i get tired , like all of us .
sometimes , these ideas will rush away from our thinking in a very important way .
i represent these kids who were convicted of very hard punishment .
i go to the research prison , and i visit a client who may be 13 or 14 years old , and he &apos;s supposed to be on trial as an adult .
descendants of the ancient tyrannian civilization , which populated the caribbean coastal plain of colombia , and as a result of the conquest , this people returned to an isolated volcanic massive that goes up above the caribbean coastal plain .
then i wonder : how could this happen ?
how can a judge turn someone into something they &apos;re not ?
the judge looks at him as an adult , but i see a child .
one night , i stayed up too long and thought , oh my god , if a judge can turn us into something else , he must have magic forces .
right , bryan , the judge has magic forces .
you should want them too .
that &apos;s great . the romans didn &apos;t really think that a genius was a particularly smart individual .
and because it was late , and i couldn &apos;t really think , i started working on a post .
i had a 14-year-old , poor black boy as a client .
and i started with this brief , and the headline was , &quot; assignment , my poor , 14-year-old black mandators , like treating a privileged , white , 75-year-old top manager . &quot;
in my commission , i explained that misconduct of the state council and the police and the biases were miserable .
there was a crazy line about the fact that in this country , there &apos;s nothing left to compute , that there &apos;s only misbehavior .
the next morning , i woke up and i didn &apos;t know if i &apos;d dreamed of this crazy assignment or actually written it .
and to my dismay , i had not only written him , but i had sent him to the court .
a few months went on , and i had just forgotten .
but finally , i decided , my god , i have to go to the court and do this crazy case .
i got in the car , and i was really overwhelmed -- overwhelmed .
they believed that a genius was this kind of magical divine creature who believed that it would literally live in the walls of an artist -- sort of like the dobby , the house 11 -- who came out and would sort of help the artist in the work and design the outcome of the work .
so i went to the court .
and i thought , it &apos;s going to be so hard , so painful .
finally , i got out of my car and went up the staircase for the court .
when i walked up the staircase to the court , there was an elderly , black man , the janitor in the court .
when he saw me , he came over to me and said , &quot; who are you ? &quot;
i said , &quot; i &apos;m a lawyer . &quot; he said , &quot; you &apos;re a lawyer ? &quot; i said , &quot; yes . &quot;
he came to me and hugged me .
then he whispered me into the ear .
he said , &quot; i &apos;m so proud of you . &quot;
and i have to say , it gave me power .
this is brilliant -- there it is , there &apos;s the distance that i talked about -- the psychological construct that protects you from the consequences of your work .
it touched something deeply in me , identity , the ability of each individual to contribute to a community , to a perspective of hope .
well , i walked into the courtroom .
as soon as the judge saw me .
he said , &quot; mr. stevenson , did you hire this crazy assignment ? &quot;
i said , &quot; yeah . &quot; and then we started discussing .
more and more people came in , just because they were angry .
i had written these crazy things .
police officers came in and dedicated state lawyers and office workers .
by the way , the courtroom of people who were angry that we were talking about skin color , about poverty , about inequality .
from my eye angle , i looked up and down the janitor .
and everybody knew it worked that way , right ?
he kept seeing through the window , and he could hear the whole tohuwabou .
he went up and down .
after all , this older black man came into the courtroom with a very concerned facial exclamation and sat right behind me , almost on the defense bank .
ten minutes later , the judge quit a break .
during the break , a police officer came in that disturbed that the janitor was in the courtroom .
this deputy ran over to the older black .
he said , &quot; jimmy , what are you doing in the courtroom ? &quot;
the older black man stood up . he looked at the deputy , then he looked at me , and he said , &quot; i &apos;ve come here to tell this young man , don &apos;t lose the goal from the eyes . don &apos;t give up . &quot;
i &apos;ve come to ted because i think many of you have understood that the moral pendulum of the universe is going way out , but it &apos;s going to increase justice .
that we , as humans , have not completely evolved unless we care about human rights and basic values .
the artist of aging was protected from certain things like , for example , too much narcissism , right ?
that our all survival is linked to each individual &apos;s survival .
that we need to connect our visions of technology and design , of entertainment and creativity to humanity , compassion and justice .
and most of all , i want those of you who see this as well just to say , don &apos;t lose your eyes . don &apos;t give up .
you &apos;ve seen , in this audience , this community , an obvious wish and belonging to help you and do something .
what else can we do ?
bryan stevenson : well , there are opportunities everywhere .
if you live in california , in this spring , there &apos;s a folk decision about actually trying to do something about the money stream that otherwise flows into the politics of punishment .
here , in california , for example , in the next five years , you &apos;re going to spend a billion dollars on death penalty , a billion dollars .
and yet , 46 percent of all the deadliers of killing don &apos;t end up with arrested .
56 percent of rape cases are not on trial .
when your work was brilliant , you didn &apos;t look at it all for you , and everybody knew you had this bodily genius that helped you .
here &apos;s the chance to do something .
this reference will propose to invest the money in more security forces and security .
i think there are opportunities everywhere .
over the last three decades , the crime rate in america has declined immensely .
this fact is often put in a context of the increased incarceration numbers .
what would you say to someone who believes that ?
well , in fact , the number of violent crimes has not changed very much .
most of the mass incarcerations in this country were not really in the class of violent crime .
it was the misguided crossroads against drugs .
so the dramatic high numbers come to prison inmates .
when your work flew -- not entirely your fault , right ?
we &apos;ve been tearing away from the rhetoric of punishment .
now we have &quot; three violations &quot; laws that bring people behind bars forever , for a bicycle theft , for the theft , for the theft of low good , rather than forcing them to give the things back to the victims .
i think we need to do more to help people who have become victims of a offense , not less .
and i think our current punishment philosophy doesn &apos;t help anybody .
i think that &apos;s what we need to change .
bryan , they really made a string to vibrate here .
they &apos;re an inspiring personality .
thank you for being at ted . thank you very much .
bin laden &apos;s death has a increased risk of risk .
it &apos;s famine in somalia . three : pepper spray of the police .
everybody knew your genius was a little bit of a loaf .
bad cartels . five : dangerous cross ships .
six : social decline . seven : 65 deaths .
tsunamiwarning . nine : cyber-attacks .
different speakers : drug war . weapons of mass destruction . tornado .
recession . gridlock . doomsday . egypt . syria .
crisis . death . disaster .
oh my god .
so these are just a few of the clips that i &apos;ve collected over the last six months -- it could have been the last six days , or the last six years .
in fact , the media preferences to show us negative issues because our minds are paying attention to these topics .
and there &apos;s also a very good reason for that .
so people in the west have really thought about creativity for a long time .
every second , every day , our senses are capturing much more information than our brains can ever process .
and because we &apos;re more important than our survival , the first stop for all the information is part of our temporal lobe , the amygdala .
so the amygdala is our early warning system , our riding detector .
it &apos;s sorting and passing through all of the information , looking for any evidence of danger in our environment .
so when we see the news , we prefer to look for negative news .
and the old saying &quot; when it bleeds , the demand &quot; is very true .
now , with all our digital devices that seven days a week , to put all these negative messages on 24 hours a day , it &apos;s not a miracle that we &apos;re pessimistic .
it &apos;s not a miracle that everybody thinks the world is doing worse and worse .
but maybe that &apos;s not the case .
maybe that &apos;s the reality .
and then the renaissance came along , and it all changed . we had this big idea . and this big idea was : let &apos;s put the human individual at the center of the universe -- all the gods and mysteries . and there &apos;s no more room for mystical creatures , embracing the commands of divinity .
maybe the tremendous progress that we &apos;ve made in the last century is accelerating through a series of forces , so strong that we will be able to create a world of abundance in the next three decades .
well , i &apos;m not saying that we don &apos;t have big problems -- climate crisis , biodiversity , water and energy problems -- we already have them .
and as humans , we &apos;re much better at looking at problems in the very long run , but ultimately overcoming them .
in a bloodshed continent , these people were the only people who have never been conquered by the spaniards .
now , let &apos;s look at what we &apos;ve done in the last century , so that we can predict the development .
in the last 100 years , the average life expectancy has more than doubled , which has tripled to inflation in average income in the world &apos;s population .
child mortality has decreased by a tenth .
and in addition , the food , electricity transportation and communication costs have been reduced by a lot of times .
steve pinker showed us that we &apos;re living in a very peaceful time in human history right now .
and according to charles kenny , the literacy rate in the last 130 years has gone from 25 percent to 80 percent .
we live in a really extraordinary time .
it &apos;s the beginning of rational humanism , and people started to believe that creativity came completely from their own individual .
and a lot of people forget this .
and we &apos;re increasing our expectations all the time .
in fact , we &apos;ve redefined poverty .
remember that a large percentage of americans who live under the poverty line have access to electricity , water , toilets , refrigerators , television , mobile phones , air conditioners and cars .
the richest capitalists in the last century , the earth &apos;s imperators , could never have dreamed of such luxury goods .
the basis for a lot of it is technology , and these are growing expotentially .
my good friend ray kurzweil has shown us that every tool that &apos;s going to become an information technology is going to be on the curve of moore &apos;s law , and the price performance quotient is going to double every 12 to 24 months .
that &apos;s why the mobile phone in your pocket costs about a million times less and is thousands of times faster than a supercomputer from the &apos; 70s .
now look at this curve .
this is moore &apos;s law over the last hundred years .
for the first time in history , people hear this genius , or this artist , they call it a genius -- instead of having a genius .
notice two things about this curve .
first , how smooth it goes -- in good times , war or peace , recession , depression and high conjunction .
this is the result of faster computers building faster computers .
it doesn &apos;t slow down for any of our big problems .
and also , despite their logarithmic process on the left , it goes upward .
so the growth rate itself is accelerating .
and on this curve , on the back of moore &apos;s law , we find a series of extraordinary technologies that are available to everybody .
&quot; cloud-computing , &quot; what my friends at autodesk call &quot; infinite-computing , &quot; sensors and networks , robots , 3d printers that allow you to democratize personal production on our planet , synthetic biology , fuels , vaccinations and food , digital medicine , nano-materials and artificial intelligence .
how many of you have seen the victory of ibm &apos;s supercomputer watson at risk ?
that was great .
i have to tell you , i think that was a big mistake .
i once went through the newspapers and looked for the best headlines i could find .
i love this one : &quot; watson is fighting human enemies . &quot;
risk is not a simple game .
it &apos;s about understanding the nuances of language .
imagine that this artificial intelligence is available to every mobile phone owner .
four years ago , ray kurzweil and i started a new university here at ted called singularity university .
we teach our students all these technologies , with special focus on how they can be used to solve the great challenges of humanity .
and every year we ask the students to create companies , products and services that can positive affect the lives of billions of people in a decade .
think about the fact that a group of students today can affect the lives of billions of people .
30 years ago , this would have been ridiculous .
you know ? i think to allow a mere person to think he or she is like the vessel , like the pelvis and the essence and the source of all divine , creative , unknown , infinite mystery is a little too much responsibility to put them on a fragile , human psyche .
today , we can point to dozens of companies that have done that .
when i think about creating abundance , i don &apos;t mean a life of luxury for everyone on this planet ; it &apos;s about creating a life of opportunity .
it &apos;s about creating abundance of scarce goods .
because scarcity is contextual , and technology is a resource of liberating power .
here &apos;s an example .
this is the story of napoleon iii in the middle of the 18th century .
he &apos;s the guy on the left .
he invited the king of siam for dinner .
napoleon &apos;s soldiers got silver bribe , napoleon himself got gold bribe .
but the king of siam got aluminum bribe .
it &apos;s like asking someone to swallow the sun .
aluminum was the most valuable metal on the planet at that time , more valuable than gold and plate .
this is why the dome of the tone monument was made out of aluminum .
although aluminum is taking 8.3 percent of the earth &apos;s mass , it doesn &apos;t appear to be pure metal .
it &apos;s connected by oxygen and silicon .
but then the technology of electrolysis was developed and made aluminum so cheap that we use it with our throwaway mentality .
then let &apos;s project this analogy into the future .
we think of energy scarcity today .
ladies and gentlemen , we live on a planet filled with 5,000-times more energy than we use every year .
16 terawatts of energy crashes to the surface of the earth every 88 minutes .
it &apos;s not scarcity , the problem is accessibility .
this disfigures and distorts whole egos , and it creates all these unreachable expectations of success .
and there &apos;s good news .
this year , for the first time , they &apos;ve been able to reduce the cost of solar power in india to 50 percent of the same electricity -- 8.8 rupees compared to 17 rupees .
the cost of solar energy was 50 percent last year .
this was published last month with a study that showed that by the end of this decade , in the sunny areas of the united states , solar energy is going to cost six cents a kwh , compared to 15 cents a national average .
and if we have an energy surplus , we will also have water in the abundance .
let &apos;s talk about water wars .
do you remember when carl sagan turned the voyager spacecraft in 1990 , when it passed saturn , back to earth ?
he took a famous photograph . what did it mean ?
&quot; a pale blue dot . &quot;
because we live on a water planet .
i think that this success pressure has devastated our artists over the last 500 years .
we live on a planet that &apos;s 70 percent covered with water .
yes , it &apos;s 97.5 percent saltwater , two percent is over , and we &apos;re fighting about 0.5 percent of the water on the planet , but there &apos;s also hope .
and there are new technologies , not in 10 or 20 years , but now .
these are new nanotechnology on the way , nano-materials .
and from a conversation this morning with dean kaman , one of the innovators of do it yourself , i want to share with you -- he gave me permission -- his engineering , which is called &quot; slingshot , &quot; and many of you may have heard of . it &apos;s the size of a refrigerator in the student &apos;s home .
it can produce a thousand liters of clean drinking water a day from different sources -- whether it &apos;s saltwater , polluted water , latrine -- and all of that for less than two cents a gallon .
the head of coca-cola just agreed to start a big test project with a hundred units in the developing world .
and if everything goes well , and i &apos;m very confident , coca-cola is going to apply this technology globally in 206 countries around the planet .
this is technological innovation that we have today .
and we &apos;ve also seen this in mobile phones .
and , if that &apos;s true -- and i think it &apos;s true -- the question is .
oh my goodness , we &apos;re going to reach the 70 percent depletion rate of mobile phones in developing countries to the end of 2013 .
just consider that a masai warrior with a cell phone in the middle of kenya has a better mobile communication than president reagan did 25 years ago .
and if you &apos;re looking for google with your smartphone , you have more access to knowledge and information than president clinton 15 years ago .
they live in a world that has information and communication in the abundance , as no one could have predicted .
and it &apos;s even better , the things that you and i have spent tens of thousands of dollars on -- gps , hd video and photograph , libraries full of books and music , technology for medical diagnostics -- are now literally more dematerialized and cheaper in your cell phone .
and the best part is perhaps what we expect in health .
last month , i had the pleasure of announcing the so-called &quot; $ 10 million qualcomm tricorder x prize . &quot;
we &apos;re challenging teams around the world to connect all these technologies to each other in a mobile phone so that you can talk to the device , because it &apos;s equipped with ai , you can check in or test your blood values .
and to win , the device has to diagnose a better diagnosis than a team of highly qualified doctors .
imagine this device . in the middle of a developing country , where there are no doctors , but 25 percent of the burden of disease and 1.3 percent of the staff of health care .
can we change it ?
if this device sequences a scarce or a dna virus that &apos;s not known , it calls the ministry of health , and it prevents a pandemic from its outbreak .
but now , the biggest force that will lead us to a world of abundance .
i call them &quot; the coming billion . &quot;
the white lines are population .
we just passed the 7-billion-dollar brand .
and just by the way , the biggest insurance against a population explosion is a better education and nutrition in the world .
in 2010 , we just had two billion people connected online .
by 2020 , we &apos;re going to go from two billion internet users to five billion internet users .
three billion new heads that we &apos;ve never heard of before will be connected to global communication .
what do these people need ?
maybe to an ancient understanding of the relationship between humans and the mystery of creativity .
what are you going to consume ? what are you going to want ?
and instead of economic gridlock , i see one of the greatest economic spheres in history .
these people represent several trillion dollars that will flow into the global economy .
and they &apos;re going to be healthier by using the tricoder , and they &apos;re going to be more educated by the khan academy , and by having the opportunity to use 3d printers and infinite computing , and so much more productive than ever before .
until today , they are governed by a ritual priesthood , but the education for priesthood is very extraordinary .
so what can three billion growing , healthy , educated , productive members of the human community bring us ?
how about a sentence of new , unheard voices before ?
what about giving the oppressed , wherever you are , a voice to pay attention and to create change for the first time ?
what are these three billion people going to bring ?
how about contributions that we can &apos;t even predict ?
one of the things that i learned through the x prize is that small teams that are motivated by passion and focus can create extraordinary things , things that big companies and governments could only create in the past .
maybe not .
i want to end with a story that really got me excited .
there &apos;s a program that some of you may know .
it &apos;s a game called foldit .
it was developed at the university of washington in seattle .
and it &apos;s a game where people can take a sequence of amino acids to study how the protein is going to evolve .
according to its behavior , we can predict the structure and function .
and this is very important in medical research .
so far , this has been a problem for supercomputers .
and this game was played by university professors and so on .
and it &apos;s now hundreds of thousands of people who have played the game online .
maybe we can &apos;t just eradicate the thought from 500 years of rational humanism in an 18-minute talk .
and it showed that today , human pattern recognition is better folding the proteins than the best supercomputers .
and when these people came and looked at who was the best protein folder in the world , this was not a mit professor , nor a caltech student , it was somebody from england , manchester , a woman who worked as a assistant to the ceo in a rehab clinic at night , and was the best protein oranguard in the world .
ladies and gentlemen , what gives me enormous confidence in our future , is the fact that we have more power today than individuals to face the great challenges of our planet .
we have access to tools with exponential technology .
we have the passion of a diy innovator .
we have the capital of techno-philanthropy .
and we have three billion new heads that we can work with online to master the new challenges , and to do what &apos;s needed .
we expect some extraordinary decades .
thank you .
i think we need to do something about a transformative piece of medical culture .
and there are certainly people in this audience who would report really legitimate scientific doubts about the notion of -- basically -- fees that would follow people and apply feathers to their projects and so on .
and i think it starts with a medical doctor , and that &apos;s me .
and maybe i &apos;ve been in the business for a long time , so i can allow myself to give up a piece of my own false prestige to do this .
but before i get to the actual topic of my talk , let &apos;s start with a little baseball .
hey , why not ?
we &apos;re close to the season end , and we &apos;re moving towards the world cup .
we all love baseball , right ?
baseball is full of great statistics .
and there are hundreds of them .
&quot; moneyball &quot; appears soon and turns to statistics and to use it to make a great baseball team .
i &apos;m going to relate to a statistic that i hope most of you have heard .
i &apos;m probably not going to be able to take all of you on this journey .
it &apos;s the average performance of the bat .
we &apos;re talking about a 300 when a bat hits 300 .
that means that the player is surely beating three out of 10 beats .
that means hitting the ball in the field , it comes up , it &apos;s not caught , and who tried to throw the ball to the first base , didn &apos;t do it on time , and the runner was safe .
three out of 10 .
do you know what it &apos;s called a 300ter in major league baseball ?
well , really good , maybe an all-star .
do you know what it &apos;s called a 400ter ?
this is somebody who , by the way , is going to hit four out of 10 .
legendary -- like ted williams legendary -- the last major league baseball player to meet over 400 times during a regular season .
but the question i want to throw up is , why not ?
let &apos;s transfer back to my medical world , where i feel a lot more comfortable , or maybe a little less comfortable to talk to you about it .
suppose you have a blind representation , and you &apos;re transferred to an operator whose average performance is 400 in terms of blindness .
it doesn &apos;t work in some way , right ?
suppose you &apos;re living in a certain remote area , and you have a beloved person with a clogged heart disease vessel , and your homemaker transfers that to a cardiologist whose average performance is 200 .
but , you know what ?
it &apos;s much better this year . it &apos;s on the rising branch .
and she &apos;s beating a 257 .
somehow , it doesn &apos;t work .
but i &apos;m going to ask you a question .
what do you think of as the average performance of a cardiologist or a nurse or an orthopedic , a birthday worker , a rescue assistant ?
why not think about it that way ?
1,000 , very good .
the truth is that no one in all medicine knows what a good surgeon or a doctor or a rescue should be .
but what we do is we send each of them , including me , to be perfect with the claim of being perfect .
never make a mistake , but no one is thinking about the details of how this should be done .
and that &apos;s the message i took in medical school .
i was a compulsive student .
in high school , a fellow student once said that brian goldmann would learn for a blood test .
and so did it .
and i learned in my little dairy , in the sisters residence at the toronto general hospital , far from here .
i memorized everything .
because it makes just as much sense as anything else i &apos;ve heard about when it comes to explaining the absolutely crazy capability of the creative process .
in my anatomic lecture , i learned the origins and executives of every muscle , every branch of every artery that takes away from the aorta , obscure and ordinary differential diagnosis .
i even knew the differential diagnosis to classify renal tubulls .
and all the time , i gathered more and more knowledge .
and i was good , i graduated with cum laude .
and i left medical school with the impression that if i knew everything memorized and knew everything , or at least as much as possible , as i could , that i was immune to the making of mistakes .
and it worked for a while , until i met woman printer .
i resisted at a teaching hospital here in toronto as a woman , who was brought to me in the emergency department of the hospital .
at that point , i was dedicated to the cardiological layer in the cardiology service .
and it was my assignment when the emergency workers were looking for cardiological advice to study the emergency patients .
and to give feedback to my senior doctor .
a process that , as anyone who has ever tried to do something -- in other words , everybody here -- doesn &apos;t always act reasonably .
i studied woman printer , and she was breathtaking .
and when i listened to her , she was making heresy sounds .
and when i listened to her chest with the stethoscope , i could hear a cracking sound on both sides , which told me that she suffered from congestive heart failure .
this is a state in which the heart is failing , instead of pumping all of the blood on , a part of the blood is stuck in the lung , and filling this gradually , so the shorthand came .
and that wasn &apos;t a hard diagnosis to do .
i hired them , and i went to the treatment .
i gave her aspirin . i gave her medicine to take the pressure of the heart .
i gave her medicine , which we call diuretics , which is water tablets , so they say the fluid .
and over a period of one and a half to two hours , she started to feel better .
i felt really good .
in fact , he can sometimes feel very paranormal .
and i made my first mistake ; i sent it home .
in fact , i made two mistakes .
i sent her home without talking to my top doctor .
i didn &apos;t pick up the listener and do what i should have , which would have been a phone call in my suitcase to tell him that he had a chance to take a picture of his own .
and he knew her , he would have been able to contribute more information to her .
maybe i did it with good reason .
maybe i didn &apos;t want to be the assistant doctor .
maybe i wanted to be so successful and so able to take responsibility that i was acting like this , and so i would be able to take care of my patients without having to contact them .
my second mistake was worse .
so that i sent her home , i missed a quiet voice in me , trying to tell me , &quot; goldman , not a good idea . don &apos;t do that . &quot;
i had this encounter recently when i met the extraordinary american poet ruth stone , who is now over 90 , but was a poet for her whole life , and she told me that she was working out on the fields in the village of virginia , she said she could feel and hear a poem about the landscape .
in fact , i was so missing from self-confidence that i asked the nurse who was taking care of woman printers , &quot; do you think it &apos;s okay when she goes home ? &quot;
and the nurse thought about it and said , in a way , &quot; yeah , i think she &apos;s going to do well . &quot;
i remember it as if it was yesterday .
so i signed the deadline papers and a ambulance and rescue assistants and brought them home .
and i went back to work .
the young acolyths are separated from their families at the age of three and four , and in a shadow world of eclipse , in stone huts at the bottom of the glacier for 18 years , two periods of each nine years , intentionally selected to mimic the nine months of pregnancy that they spent in the lap of their abundant mother , they &apos;re now spending metamorically in the lap of the great mother .
the rest of the day , the evening , i had this nagging feeling in my stomach .
but i kept working .
and at the end of the day , i grabbed my stuff , i left the hospital , and i went to the parking lot to go home with the car when i did something i didn &apos;t do otherwise .
i went through the emergency department on my way home .
and there another nurse said , not the sister who had seen printer after woman , but another three words to me , and these three words fear most of the emergency doctors i know .
she said it was like a thundering train of air .
other medical professionals are also afraid of this , but the emergency care is very special , because we see the patients just so volatile .
the three words said , remember ?
&quot; do you remember the patient you sent home ? &quot;
and the nurse asked the expert .
&quot; so she &apos;s back , &quot; she said in this particular tone .
so she was back .
she was back and dying .
about an hour after she got home , after i sent her home , she collapsed , and the family called 911 , and the rescue assistant brought her back to the emergency room with a bloodshed of 50 , which is a dangerous shock state .
she didn &apos;t breathe , and she walked blue .
the emergency workers moved all the strands .
it would roll over the country on you .
they gave their blood pressure increases .
they hooked it to the ventilation machine .
i was shocked , and i was crushed into the inner .
and i lived through this rollercoaster because she came to the intensive care unit after the stabilization , and i hoped that she would recover .
and after two , three days , she realized that she would never wake up again .
she had suffered a non-treatable brain damage .
her family gathered together .
and over the course of the next eight or nine days , they got to the subject .
on the new day , they made them go -- woman printer , woman , mother and grandmother .
it &apos;s said that you never forget the names of the people who die .
she felt when it came , because it would bring the earth under her feet .
and that was the first time i learned this myself .
the next couple of weeks , i made the blueprints , and i first learned the unhealthy shame that exists in our medical culture -- i felt alone , isolated , not the kind of healthy shame that you feel because you can &apos;t talk to the colleagues about it .
you all know the healthy shame , when you give a secret to the best friend &apos;s prize , even though that one swells at you , and then you get caught , and the best friend confronts you with it , and my terribly discussion , when you end up with the bad conscience , and you &apos;re voicing that you &apos;re never going to make such a mistake again .
if you do recovery and never make the mistake again .
this is the kind of educational shame .
the unhealthy way i &apos;m talking about it is the one that makes you sick in the innermost .
it &apos;s the one who tells you that not what you &apos;ve done is bad , but that you &apos;re bad .
and that &apos;s what i felt .
and it wasn &apos;t because of my top doctor , he was very dear .
he was talking to the family , and i &apos;m sure he was smoking the woods and making sure i was not sued .
she knew that in a moment like that , she could only do one thing , and that was -- in her words -- she was running like the devil .
but i continued to ask myself these questions .
why didn &apos;t i ask the top doctor ? why did i send her home ?
and then in my worst moments , how could i make such a stupid mistake ?
why did i go to medicine ?
slowly but surely , it turned out .
i started feeling better .
and then on a wounded day , there was a hole in the clouds , and the sun broke out , and i might say , i can feel better again .
and i was negotiating with myself that if i doubled my efforts for perfection and never again made a mistake that the voice could be stumbled .
and she did .
and i kept working .
she ran like the devil to the house while she was pursued by this poem , and it was just because she had to go fast enough to a sheet of paper and a pen , so she could catch it when it went through her and she could hold on the sheet .
and then it happened again .
two years later , i had a service at the emergency ward in a local hospital north of toronto , and i was looking at a 25-year-old man with a mature raw .
it was a lot going on , and i was in a hurry .
he always showed up here .
i looked in the racks , and it was a little bit of pink .
and i gave him a prescription for penicillin and sent him on .
and even as he walked out the door , he pointed out on his rake .
two days later , i came to my next emergency service , and my chef asked me to talk to her office .
and she said the three words : do you remember ?
&quot; do you remember the patient with the height of the patient ? &quot;
in other paintings , she wasn &apos;t fast enough . she ran and ran and ran , but she didn &apos;t get to the house , and the poem rolled through her , and she missed it . she said it was going to go over land and , as she said , look for another poet .
it turns out he &apos;s a streptococus infection .
he had a potentially life-threatening disease called epiglottitis .
you can google that , but it &apos;s not an infection of the raw , but it &apos;s the upper respiratory pathway , and it causes the locking of the breathing paths .
and luckily , he didn &apos;t die .
he got intravenous antibotica and recovered a few days later .
and i went back through the same torture of shame and self-doubt , felt free , and i went to the work , until it happened again and again and again .
in an emergency layer , i &apos;ve overlooked a blindfold twice .
there &apos;s a lot of it , especially when you think that you &apos;re working in a hospital that at that time only had 14 patients per night .
in both cases , i didn &apos;t send them home , and there were probably no shortage of treatment .
one thought he had kidney stones .
and then there were these moments -- i &apos;ll never forget that part -- and she said that there were moments when she nearly missed it .
i arranged the x-ray of kidneys , and when that was without any evidence , my colleague , in the recurrence of the patient , found a hardening in the lower right sector and called the operators .
the other one had strong diarrhea .
i ordered fluids to rehydrate him , and i asked my colleagues to look at him as well .
and he did that , and when he found a hardening in the lower right sector , he called the operators .
they were doing surgery in both cases , and they were doing well .
both of these cases nailed me , and they shoot me .
and i would be happy to tell you that my worst mistake happened only in the first five years , which many of my colleagues say , but is total nonsense .
some of my claws happened in the last five years .
alone , shame and without support .
here &apos;s the problem : if i can &apos;t finish up with my mistakes and talk about them , if i have the quiet voice that tells me what really didn &apos;t happen , how can i share it with my colleagues ?
so , she runs up to the house , and she looks for the paper , and the poem goes through her , and she grabs a pen just as it goes through her , and then -- she said -- she was like taking the other hand and grabbing it .
how can i teach you my mistakes so you don &apos;t make the same mistake ?
if i went into a room -- like right now , i have no idea what you &apos;re thinking about me .
when was the last time you heard of somebody who talked about failures about failures ?
oh yeah , you go to a cocktail party , and you might hear about some other doctor , but you &apos;re not going to hear somebody talk about your mistakes .
if i were to go into a room full of colleagues and ask them their immediate support and start to tell them what i just told you , i would probably not be able to reach the end of the second story before it really would be uncomfortable , anybody would have a joke , they would change the topic and forget the rest .
and in fact , if i knew , or my colleagues , that an orthopedic in my hospital would have taken the wrong leg off , believe me , i have trouble looking at him .
this is the system that we live in .
it &apos;s a completely denial of errors .
there &apos;s a system in which there are two basic positions -- those who make mistakes and those who don &apos;t make them . those who are restricted to sleep deprivation , and those who have no constraints , those with bad outcomes and those with good results .
it &apos;s almost an ideological reaction like antibodies that attack a human .
she got the poem on his tail , and she pulled it back into her body , and she took it over to the sheet of paper .
and there &apos;s the idea that when we put those who make mistakes out of medicine , we have a safe system .
but there are two problems with this .
in my about 20 years of medical sensation and journalism , i &apos;ve done a personal medical study of medical errors and false treatments to learn everything i could for one of my first papers , which i wrote for the toronto star , &quot; white coat , black art . &quot;
and what i learned is that mistakes are absolutely inexhaustible .
we &apos;re working in a system where errors happen every day , where one in 10 medications is either a wrong or a wrong dose , where hospital infections are becoming more and more and more and more and more and more and more and more and more , and cause devastation or dead .
in this state , about 24,000 canadians die of comprehensive errors .
in the united states , the institute of medicine is the number of 100,000 .
both of these are strong understatements , because we don &apos;t really look at the problem as closely as we should .
and it &apos;s the crux .
in a hospital system where medical knowledge doubles every two or three years , we can &apos;t keep up .
in these opportunities , the poem came in and intact on the paper -- but backwards -- from the last word to the first .
sleep deprivation is ubiquitous .
we can &apos;t get rid of it .
we have a cognitive error so that we can take a perfect pathology for a breast pain patient .
and all this time , they &apos;re culturally introduced into the values of their society , values that sustain the claim that their prayers and only their prayers , the cosmic -- or we could say the ecological -- balance .
then i take the same patient with chest pain , and i sweat him and i give him a little bit of alcoholized breath , and all of a sudden the story is devastated with contempt .
i don &apos;t take the same process .
i &apos;m not a robot ; i don &apos;t always do things the same way .
and my patients are not cars ; they don &apos;t always tell me their symptoms in the same way .
so , in summary , mistakes are inevitable .
so if you take the system the way i &apos;ve been taught to do it , and you take all the flawed health professionals , then at the end of the day , there &apos;s no one left .
and do you know the people who don &apos;t want to talk about their worst cases ?
and when i heard that , i thought that was really scary -- that &apos;s exactly how my creative process is going on .
in my show , &quot; white coat , black art , &quot; i have the habit of saying , &quot; this is my worst mistake , &quot; i would say to anyone from the rescue assistant to the bofarming of the cardiologists saying , &quot; this is my worst mistake , &quot; blah , blah , blah , blah , blah , blah , what about yours ? &quot; and then i &apos;ll show you the microphone to him .
and then their pupils expand , they &apos;ve been bumped in front of their head , and then they look down and they swallow , and they start to tell their stories .
they want to tell their stories . they want to share their stories .
they want to be able to say , &quot; look , don &apos;t make the same mistakes i made . &quot;
what you need is an environment that will allow you to do that .
what you need is a new medical culture .
and it starts with a doctor .
the new defined doctor is a human , white for his humanity , accepted it , is not proud to make mistakes , but it all puts something out of them so that it can be passed on .
she shares her experiences with others .
she supports others when they talk about their mistakes .
it &apos;s not like my creative process at all -- i &apos;m not the channel !
and it shows others their mistakes , not to just put it , but in a loving , supportive way , so that all of them benefit .
and she works in a medical culture that recognizes that people fill the system with life , and if that &apos;s what it is , then people also make mistakes from time to time .
so that the system develops to create backups that make it easier to find mistakes that make people inevitable , and it also enables people to create loving , supportive spaces in which anyone who &apos;s watching health care can actually address things that are actually addressing the potential errors and even rewarding them , and in particular , for people like me who are making mistakes and should be rewarded for the gratification of these things .
my name is brian goldman .
i &apos;m the new defined doctor .
i &apos;m a human being . i make mistakes .
but i &apos;m unfortunate , but i &apos;m trying to learn best from that to pass it on to others .
i don &apos;t know what you think of me , but i can live with that .
so let me close with three of my own words : i remember .
i &apos;m going to talk about a tiny , small idea .
i &apos;m a mouse . in order to work , i have to get up and sweat every day at the same time , tire me down and really uncomfortable .
it &apos;s about changing standards .
and because you can explain this idea in a minute , i &apos;m going to tell you three stories before to use time .
the first story is about charles darwin , one of my heroes .
you know , he was here in 1835 .
you might think he was chasing fins , but that &apos;s not true .
he actually collected fish .
he described one of them as very common .
it was a grouper .
until the &apos; 80s , it was fished in a big way .
now he &apos;s on the red list of endangered species .
but even in my mammalian species , sometimes this thing has stripped .
we &apos;ve heard this story many times from the galapagos , or from other places , it &apos;s not very special .
yet , we still get to the galapagos .
we still think they &apos;re original .
the brochures still describe them as untouched .
what happened here ?
the second story is to illustrate a different concept , the changing waistline .
because i experienced it when i studied a lagoon in west africa in 1971 .
i went there because i grew up in europe , and i wanted to work in africa later .
i thought i could integrate .
and i got a bad sunburn , and i was convinced that i really didn &apos;t come from there .
and i guess many of you have done that .
it was my first sunburn .
as you can see , the lagoon of palms was surrounded by a few mangroves .
there were a bunk of about 20 centimeters , black-and-white breeders , a subway of the bunk .
the fisheries of these bunks were very productive , and the fishermen lived well , and on average , they were earning good in ghana .
when i went back 27 years later , the fish had shrunk to half its size .
they grew five inches .
they had been genetically expressed .
it was still fish .
people were still happy .
and the fish was also lucky to be there .
even i had work or ideas that came through from a source of me that i really can &apos;t identify .
so it hasn &apos;t changed , and yet everything has changed .
my third little story is about my contribution to introducing trawling in southeast asia .
in the &apos; 70s -- rather at the beginning of the &apos; 60s -- europe promoted a lot of development projects .
fish promoting meant countries that were already starting 100,000 fish , the industrial fishing catch of this pretty ugly ship called mutiara 4 .
i went to this , and we made the elevations throughout the south china sea , and especially in the javasee .
we didn &apos;t have words for what we started there .
i know now that it was the reason of the ocean .
90 percent of our start was sponges , other animals that are connected to the reason .
most of the fish , the little dots there on the rubber , the rubber pile , were coral reef fish .
basically , the ocean &apos;s bottom was on deck , and then it was thrown back .
what is this thing ?
these images are extraordinary , because the transition is very quick .
within a year , you run a survey , and then you start with the commercial fishing .
the reason is changing . in this case , a hard reason or soft corals become a crappy crap .
this is a dead turtle .
they were not eaten , they were thrown away because they were dead .
one time , we started a living one .
she wasn &apos;t drowned yet .
then they wanted to kill them , because you could eat them well .
in fact , this mountain of rubber is collected by fishermen every time they drive into areas that have never been fished .
but it &apos;s not documented .
and how do we relate to that without losing our minds , but to keep ourselves in mental health , on the contrary ?
we change the world , but we don &apos;t remember it .
we adapt our standards to the new level , and we don &apos;t remember what was there .
if you generalize it , this is what happens .
on the y-axis , there are some good things : biodiversity , number of orca , the green of your country , the water supply .
over time , it changes . it changes , because for people , their actions are very natural .
every generation looks at the images that you take in the beginning of your conscious life as standard and will derive everything from it .
the difference is then perceived as a loss .
but they don &apos;t notice the previous losses .
there can be a sequence of change .
and at the end , they just want to get the pathetic remains .
for me , the best example of how to do this is the musician tom waits . i was allowed to interview him for a magazine a few years ago .
that &apos;s our goal now , largely .
we want to get things that have disappeared or things that are no longer the way they were .
now you might think that the problem was looking at people who certainly lived in predatory societies , killing animals , and who only after a few generations , became aware of what they had done .
because obviously , an animal that was very common will rarely be extinct before it dies out .
so you don &apos;t lose a common occurrence of animals .
you lose rare animals all the time .
and that &apos;s why it &apos;s not perceived as a big loss .
over time , we &apos;re focusing on the big animals , and in the sea , these are the big fish .
they become less rare because we catch them .
over time , there &apos;s little fish left , and we think that &apos;s the standard value .
we talked about this topic . and you know what ? most of his life , tom was the embodiment of the embarrassed modern artist who was trying to dominate this uncontrollable creative impulse that lived in him , and to deal with them .
the question is , why do people accept this ?
well , because you don &apos;t know it was once different .
of course , many people , scientists , will confirm that it was really different .
they &apos;re going to confirm it , because the evidence of how they were in an earlier form is not the way they would like to present the evidence .
there is , for example , the anecdote that the report of a capita soundso that observed large fish resources in this area can &apos;t be used , or typically not being used by fisheries , because it &apos;s not &quot; scientific . &quot;
at the end of this amazing initiation , you &apos;re suddenly taken out one day , and for the first time in your life , at the age of 18 , you see a sunrise . and in this crystal moment of consciousness , of the first light when the sun begins to shine on the hands of the astonishing landscape , all of a sudden everything you &apos;ve learned in abstract glory . and the priest comes back and says , &quot; do you see ? it &apos;s really how i told you .
so we have the situation that people don &apos;t know the past , even though we live in educated societies , because they don &apos;t trust the sources of the past .
this shows the enormous amount of role that a marine reserve can play .
because through marine protected areas , we &apos;re basically restoring the past .
we &apos;re restoring the past that people can &apos;t understand , because the standard values have changed and are very low .
so the people who see a marine protected area can benefit from the insight that makes it possible to restore their normal values .
but then he got older and quieter . he told me he was driving on a highway in los angeles one day , and it all changed for him .
what about the people who don &apos;t do that , because they don &apos;t have access -- the people in the midwest , for example ?
here , i think , the art and the film might fill the gap , and simulations .
this is the simulation of chesapeake bay .
a long time ago , there were gray whales -- 500 years ago .
and the color notes and the shades may remind you of &quot; avatar . &quot;
if you think of &quot; avatar , &quot; if you think about why people were so touched by it -- except for the pocahoney story , why were you so touched by the visual world ?
because it calls something that has been lost in a way .
so my recommendation , the only one i &apos;m going to give , is to cameron , so he &apos;s turning &quot; avatar ii &quot; underwater .
thank you .
in the &apos; 80s , in the communist east germany , if you had a typewriter , you had to register it in the government .
he was driving at high speed when he suddenly hears a little fragment of a melody that , as is often inspiring , is very difficult to grasp for him , and he wants to have them . she &apos;s gorgeous . he leans afterwards , but he can &apos;t grab them .
they also had to register a piece of text from this typewriter .
the reason for this is that the government could track back where a text came from .
they found an article with the wrong thought , they could detect the creator of these thoughts .
and we couldn &apos;t understand how anyone could do this , and how much that would restrict the freedom of speech .
in our own countries , we would never do that .
but if you buy a new color laser printer , in 2011 , from the leading laser printing factories and print a page , this page of bright yellow spots on every page , in a pattern that clearly makes the page track on you and your printer .
this is what happens to us today .
and nobody seems to be upset about that .
and this was an example of the way our own governments use technology against us , citizens .
and this is one of the three main sources of the online problems that exist today .
he doesn &apos;t have a piece of paper , he doesn &apos;t have a pen , he doesn &apos;t have a tape recorder .
let &apos;s look at what &apos;s really happening in the world : we can split the attacks into categories .
we have three main groups .
there are online criminals .
for example , this is mr. dimitry golubow from kiev in ukraine .
and the motives of online criminals are very easy to understand .
these people make money .
they use online attacks to make a lot of money , a huge amount of money .
there are several known cases of online millionaires , multimillionaires that have made their money through attacks .
this is wladimir tsastsin from tartu in estonia .
this is alfred gonzalez .
so he starts to climb this old adhesive in him , like i &apos;m going to lose this thing , and he &apos;s going to be tracked by this song over time .
stephen watts .
bjorn sundin .
these are matthew anderson , tariq al-daour and so on and so forth .
these people have come online to wealth , but they &apos;ve got it illegal by using trojans to steal money from our bank accounts while we &apos;re doing our online banking , or keyloggers , who have collected our credit card information on the keyboard , while we &apos;re buying it online .
the u.s. intelligence agency frozen two months ago , the swiss account of mr. sam jain here , and on this account , 14.9 million u.s. dollars when it was frozen .
mr. jain himself is on a free foot , and the location is unknown .
and i &apos;m saying today that it &apos;s more likely that we are going to be victims of an online crime than a fragile in the real world .
and it &apos;s very obvious that this is going to get worse .
in the future , most crimes are going to be online .
the second largest group of attacks that we can see today are not motivated by money .
i &apos;m not good enough , i &apos;m not able to do it .
they &apos;re motivated by something else -- protests something like , an opinion , or through their audience .
groups like anonymous have gone up over the last 12 months , and have become one of the main players in the field of online attacks .
so these are the three main groups of attacks : criminals who do it for the money , hackactivists like anonymous , who do it , but the last group are nations , governments that run the attacks .
there are cases where we are , like diginotar .
it &apos;s unprecedented what happens when governments attack their own citizens .
diginotar is a full-power certificate from the netherlands -- or was it .
in the last fall , it had to report insolves , because diginotar had been hacked .
somebody had broken in and hacked the system thoroughly .
and last week in a meeting with dutch government officials , i asked one of the leaders of this group to see if he could do it , because of the diginotar hack people had died .
and his answer was yes .
but instead of getting into panic , he just stopped .
now , how do people die in the aftermath of such a hack ?
diginotar is a certification site .
they sell certificates .
what do you do with certificates ?
now , a certificate , if you have a website with https , with ssl-encrypted services , for example , gmail .
now we all use , or many of us , gmail or one of our competitors , but these services are especially distributed in totalitarian states like iran , where dissidents use foreign providers like gmail , because they know that they can trust them more than local providers and they &apos;re encrypted over ssl connections , so that the local government can &apos;t sniff around in their conversation .
but can you do that if you go into a foreign .
certification agency to hack and expose fake certificates .
and that &apos;s exactly what happened in the case of diginotar .
how about the arab spring and the things that happened in egypt , for example ?
he ended the whole gang of thought , and he did something completely new .
now , in egypt , the insurgencies in april 2011 plotted the headquarters of egyptian secret police , and they found a lot of records .
in these records , there was a folder called &quot; finfisher . &quot;
and in this folder , notes were a local company in germany that the egyptian government had sold a few programs that they could , in very large scale , capture any communication of egyptian citizens .
they had sold this program for 280,000 euros to the egyptian government .
the headquarters are right here .
so western governments provide totalitarian governments with tools so that they can run against their own citizens .
but western governments also help themselves .
for example , in germany , only a few weeks ago , we found the so-called state strajans , which was a trojan that was used by german government officials to tap their own citizens .
if you &apos;re suspected in a criminal case , it &apos;s pretty much your phone being tapped .
but today we are far beyond that .
he just looked in the sky and said , &quot; excuse me , can &apos;t you see i drive ? &quot;
they tap into their internet connection .
they use tools like the state strajan to play their computer with a trojan that allows them to monitor their entire communication , to listen to their online discussions , to collect their passwords .
so if we keep thinking about things like this , the obvious answer of people would be , &quot; ok , that sounds bad , but it doesn &apos;t matter to me because i &apos;m a good citizen .
i don &apos;t have to worry .
i have nothing to hide . &quot;
and that argument doesn &apos;t make any sense .
privacy must be given .
privacy is not the debate .
it &apos;s not a decision between privacy and security .
it &apos;s a choice between freedom and control .
do i look like i could just write a song ?
and while today , in 2011 , we like to trust our governments , every right that we abandon is forever abandoned .
and do we trust , do we trust any future government , any government that we might have in 50 years ?
these are the questions that we have to deal with for the next 50 years .
it may seem strange to you , but i &apos;m a big fan of concrete blocks .
the first concrete blocks were made in 1868 , and they came up with a simple idea : module of cement with fixed measurements that fit together .
concrete building blocks became very quickly the most used building unit in the world .
they allowed us to build things that were bigger than us , buildings , bridges , one stone after another .
basically , the concrete building block had become the building block of our time .
almost a hundred years later , in 1947 , lego came out with this .
it was called the automatically connecting stone .
if you really want to exist , come back to a cheaper moment , if i can take care of you .
and within a few years , lego moved into every household .
it &apos;s estimated that over 400 billion stones were produced -- or 75 stones for every person on the planet .
it &apos;s so wonderful . you have to protect it . &quot;
they don &apos;t have to be an engineer to create beautiful houses , beautiful bridges or beautiful buildings .
lego made it possible for everyone .
lego basically took the concrete building block , the world &apos;s building block , and made it a building block for our imagination .
in the meantime , in the same year at bell labs , the next revolution was announced , the next building block .
the transistor was a small plastic unit that would take us from a world of static , stacked tiles to a world where everything was interactive .
like the concrete block , the transistor allows us to build much larger , more complex cycles , one stone at a time .
but there &apos;s a major difference : the transistor was just for experts .
i personally don &apos;t accept that the building block of our time is reserved for experts , and so i decided to change that .
if not , somebody else today is squawking .
eight years ago , i was at the media lab , and i started to explore this idea of how to put the power of engineers in the hands of artists and designers .
a few years ago , i started to develop littlebits .
let me show you how they work .
littlebits are electronic modules that have a specific function .
they &apos;re made to be light , sound , engine and sensor .
and the best part is that they connect with magnets .
so you can &apos;t put them together wrong .
the stones are color-coded .
green is output , blue is electricity , pink is input , and orange is cable .
so all you have to do is connect a blue one and a green one , and you can quickly build bigger cycles .
go and agonize leonard cohen .
they put a blue on a green one , and they can make light .
you can put a switch in between , and so you &apos;ve created a little dimmer .
take the switch out to put in a pulsar , which is here , and they made a little blind .
add this buzzer for an extra effect , and they made a noise machine .
i &apos;m going to stop that .
beyond the simple game , littlebits is actually quite powerful .
instead of programming , wiring or solving , allowing littlebits to program them with simple , intuitive gestures .
so to accelerate or slow the blink , just turn that button , and it makes the impulse faster or slower .
the idea behind littlebits is that it &apos;s a growing library .
we want to bring every single interaction in the world into a useful stone .
his whole process of labor has changed after that .
lights , sound , solar elements , motors -- everything should be available .
we &apos;ve distributed littlebits to children , and we &apos;ve seen them play with it .
and it was an incredible experience .
the most beautiful thing is , how do they start to understand the electronics that they surround in everyday life and they don &apos;t learn in school ?
like , for example , a night light works , or why the doors of the elevator remain open , or how an ipod responds to touch .
we also brought littlebits to design schools .
so , for example , we had designers with no experience whatsoever in electronic things that started playing with littlebits as a material .
here we see , with filce , paper and water bottles , like geordie ...
a few weeks ago , we brought littlebits to risd , and we gave them some designers who had no technical experience whatsoever -- just cardboard , wood and paper -- and told them , &quot; do something . &quot;
here &apos;s an example of a project that they did , a movements controlled confetti-cannon .
not the work itself . it was still as dark as ever .
but wait , this is really my favorite project .
it &apos;s a hummer of play-doh that &apos;s scared in the dark .
for these non-engineers , littlebits became another material , electronics just became another material .
and we want to make this material available for everyone .
so littlebits is open source .
you can go to the website , download all the design supplies and make them yourself .
we want to encourage the world of the creators , the inventors , the contributors , because this world we live in , this interactive world , belongs to us .
so , go ahead and start inventing them .
thank you .
but the process and the heavy adhesive that surrounds him was lifted when he took out the genius , where he didn &apos;t make anything more trouble and left him where he came from , and he realized that it didn &apos;t have to be an internal , agonizing thing .
there could be a peculiar , wonderful , bizarre collaboration , a kind of conversation between tom and the foreign , outrageous thing that wasn &apos;t quite tom .
when i heard this story , it also changed a little bit of the way i worked , and it saved me .
this idea rescued me when i was in the middle of writing , pray , love , and i fell into one of these grubs of the doubt that we all fall into when we work on something and it doesn &apos;t work . you start to think it &apos;s a disaster . this is the worst book ever written .
not just bad , but the worst of all time .
i started thinking , i should just put the project in .
they call themselves the older brothers and say that we , who are the younger brothers , are responsible for the destruction of the world .
but then i remembered how tom talked in the free sky , and i tried .
so i took a look at the manuscript , and i spoke to my commentary towards an empty corner of the room .
i said , &quot; listen , you know , you know , you and i both know , if this book is not brilliant , it &apos;s not completely my fault , right ?
because you can see that i &apos;m investing everything i have . i don &apos;t have any more than that .
so if you want to have it better , you have to cross here and hold your percentage of the deal .
okay . but if you don &apos;t do that -- you know what the hell is .
i &apos;m going to keep writing , because that &apos;s my job .
and i want to ask you to protocol that i was here for my part of the job today .
because ... at the end , it &apos;s like this . centuries ago , in the desert north africa , people have gathered monthly with sacred dances and music that were held for hours -- to the dawn .
these solids were always great , because the dancers were professional , and they were fantastic .
now this level of intuition becomes very important .
but again and again , very rarely , something special happened . one of the performers actually became overseas .
and i know you know what i mean , because i know you &apos;ve all seen a performance in your life .
it was like time would stand still and the dancer would come through a kind of pforte , and he didn &apos;t do anything different than he had ever done before -- 1,000 nights before , but it all came together .
and all of a sudden , he no longer seemed human .
it was illuminated by the inside , and it was illuminated by the bottom , and it was all illuminating through a divine fire .
when something like this happened , people knew what this was . they called it on his name .
they put the hands together , and they started singing , allah , allah , allah , god , god , god .
that &apos;s god , you know ?
interesting historical footnote : when the moirs of south spain conquered this practice . the language changed over the centuries of the allah , allah , allah , allah , allah , olé , olé , which you still hear in the pen fight and flamenco dances .
if a performer in spain has done something impossible , something magical , something magical : an allah , olé , olé , allah , great , bravo , there it is : a glimpse of god .
every time we think of innate and landscape , we either conjure rousseau and the old scaffold of the noble wild , which in its simplification is a racial thought or , on the other hand , thoreau and say , these people are more connected to nature than we are .
and that &apos;s great , because we need that .
but , the tricky part follows the next morning when the dancer himself wakes up and realizes that it &apos;s 11 o &apos;clock on a tuesday -- and no longer carries a fifth of god .
he &apos;s just an aging mortal with painful knees , and maybe he &apos;ll never get back to those heights .
and maybe no one will ever call himself god &apos;s name when he turns , but then what should he do with the rest of his life ?
that &apos;s hard .
this is one of the most painful corrections of a creative life .
but maybe it doesn &apos;t have to be so full of pure if you didn &apos;t believe at the beginning that the most extraordinary aspects of your existence came from you .
if you may just believe that you &apos;re a loan -- of an unthinkable source for a reader time in your life that &apos;s passed on to someone else when you &apos;re done with it .
when we start thinking about it this way , it changes everything .
so i started thinking , and so i certainly think in the last few months , working on the book that &apos;s going to come out soon -- as the dangerous , scary , strongly expected successor of my departed success .
so , indigenous people are not sentimental , nor are they drawn by the nostalgia .
what i have to say to myself all the time , when i get crazy about it , is , don &apos;t be afraid .
don &apos;t be discouraged .
just do your job .
be there for your contribution , whatever he wants to be .
if your job is dancing , dance .
if the stupid divine genius that you &apos;ve put aside decides , for a moment , to show a miracle through your effort , then , olé !
and if not , still dance your dance .
and it &apos;s olé ! it &apos;s for you , despite all that .
i believe in that , and i feel that we should teach that .
so , olé ! so , for you , just for you to have the mere human love and the sense of being there .
there &apos;s not a lot of room for this in the malaria swamp of asmat or the cold winds of tibet , but still , through time and ritual , they have shaped a mysterious nimbus on earth , which is not based on the idea of being aware of it , but on a far more subtle intuition , the idea that the earth can only exist , because it &apos;s inhaled into human consciousness .
thank you .
thank you .
olé !
last year , i showed these two slides to illustrate that the arctic ice caps , which for nearly three million years had the size of the bottom 48 states , has shrinked 40 percent .
but this doesn &apos;t express the seriousness of this particular problem , because it doesn &apos;t show the thickness of the ice .
in a sense , the arctic ice caps is the beating heart of our global climate system .
it grows in winter and shrinks in summer .
the next slide i &apos;m going to show you is a time-lapse record of what &apos;s happened in the last 25 years .
the permanent ice is marked with red .
as you can see , it grows on the dark blue , this is the annual ice in the winter , and it shrinks in the summer .
now , what does that mean ?
the so-called permanent ice , five years old or older , is almost like blood flowing out of the body here .
in 25 years , it &apos;s going to be gone from here to here .
this is a problem because the warming is rising around the frozen reason of the arctic ocean , where there are huge amounts of frozen carbon , which , when it stops , is transformed from microbes to methane .
compared to the entire amount of climate change materials in the atmosphere , this amount could double if we cross this critical point .
already today , in some flat lakes in alaska methane from the water itself .
professor katey walter at the university of alaska has traveled to another shallow seas last winter .
wow !
you &apos;re doing fine . the question is , how are we going to get ?
and one reason is that this enormous heat rush heats greenland from the north .
this is an annual dive flow .
it means that a little kid from the andean who grows up in the belief that the mountain is an apu-mind , who determines his fate , will become a whole other person , and will have a different relationship with this resource or this place , as a little kid from montana who grows up in the belief that a mountain is a bunch of stones that can be carried off .
but the volume is much larger than ever before .
this is the kangerlussuaq river in southwest greenland .
if you want to know how the sea level of land ice is going up here , it &apos;s going into the sea .
these rivers are rapidly accepting .
at the other end of the planet , antarctica , the largest ice mass on the planet .
last month , researchers reported that the entire continent now has a negative ice footprint .
and the west antarctica , which has come up over a few underwater islands , is particularly strong in melting .
this is about 20 feet of sea level , like greenland .
in the himalayas , the third largest ice mass , you see new lakes up there , which were glaciers a few years ago .
40 percent of all the people in the world get half of their drinking water from this melting water .
whether it &apos;s a place of mind or a pile of ore , it &apos;s irrelevant .
in the andes , this glacier is the drinking water source for this city .
water quantities have been expanding .
but if you seal , most of the drinking water will fall away .
in california , a 40 percent reduction in the snow ceiling of the sierra .
this is the memory basin .
and the predictions of how you read them are serious .
now , this embodiment all over the world leads to a dramatic increase in fire .
and the catastrophes around the world have been increasing in a really extraordinary and unprecedented way before .
four times as many in the last 30 years as in the previous 75 .
this is a completely unsustainable pattern of development .
the interesting thing is the metaphor that defines the relationship between the individual and nature .
if you look at this in the historical context , you can see what it &apos;s doing .
in the last five years , we &apos;ve produced 70 million tons of co2 every 24 hours -- 25 million tons a day into the oceans .
look at the area of the eastern pacific right now , from the american continent west and both the indian subcontinent , where there is a dramatic decline in oxygen in the ocean .
the biggest single factor for global warming , besides deforestation , which is 20 percent , is burning fossil fuels .
oil is a problem , and coal is the most likely problem .
the united states is one of the two biggest pollutants , along with china .
and the proposal was to build many more coal-fired factories .
but we &apos;re starting to see a change .
here are the ones that have been stripped in the last few years , with some green alternatives that have been proposed .
meanwhile , there &apos;s a political argument in our country .
i grew up in the forests of british colombia , and i believed that these forests are there to be bathed .
and the coal industries and oil industries spent a quarter billion dollars last calendars to promote clean coal , which is a contradiction in itself .
this picture reminded me of something .
around christmas , i was at home in tennessee , a billion tons of coal lamb .
you &apos;ve seen it in the news , apparently .
this is the second largest waste flow in america in our entire country .
this happened around christmas .
one of the coal industry commercials at christmas was this .
frosty the carbon man is a happy , happy guy .
it &apos;s in skin and abundance in america , and it helps our economy grow .
frosty , the carbon man gets cleaner every day .
that made me a different person than my friends under the kwakiutl , who believe that these forests are the place of hukuk and the curved celestial beak and the cannibalic spirits that live on the north of the world , spirits that they would participate in their hamatsa initiation .
it &apos;s affordable , it &apos;s loving , and workers stay in the wage and the bread .
this is the source of most coal in west virginia .
the most powerful miner is the head of massey coal .
let me say one very clearly . al gore , nancy pelosi , harry reid , you don &apos;t know what you &apos;re talking about .
so the alliance for climate change has created two campaigns .
this is one , a part of it .
at coalergy , we see climate change as a serious threat to our business .
so we set it up at the top of the line to spend a substantial amount of money to get an ad on the way to get the truth about coal .
in fact , coal is not dirty .
we think it &apos;s clean -- and it still smells good .
now , if you start to look at the idea that these cultures can create different realities , you can understand some of their extraordinary discoveries , like this plant here .
so , don &apos;t worry about climate change .
let &apos;s leave that quietly .
clean coal , you &apos;ve heard a lot about it .
so let &apos;s do a tour of this modern , clean coal factory .
fantastic ! this machine is pretty loud .
but it &apos;s the sound of clean coal technology .
and yet , coal burning is one of the main reasons for global warming , the remarkable clean coal technology that you see here is changing everything .
look at it carefully , this is the clean , clean coal-fired technology today .
finally , the positive alternative is mixing with our economic challenge and our challenge of national security .
america is in a crisis , the economy , the national security , the climate crisis .
it &apos;s a picture that i just took last april in the northwest of the amazon .
the red thread that connects them all is our dependence on carbon-based fuels like dirty coal and foreign oil .
but now there &apos;s a brave , new solution to get us out of that miserable situation .
in the next 10 years , america is reproviding clean electricity with 100 percent clean electricity .
a plan to bring america back to work , to make us safer and to help stop global warming .
finally , a solution that &apos;s big enough to solve our problems .
all of these people are teaching us that there are other possibilities of existence , different ways of thinking , different ways of guiding the earth .
keep america new . find out more .
this is the last one .
it &apos;s about a new supply of america .
one of the fastest ways of reducing our dependence on old , dirty fuels that are emitting our world .
the future is here . wind , sun and a new energy system .
this is ayahuasca , who many of you have heard about , the strongest psychoactive preparture from the repertoire of shame .
new investments to create well-paid jobs .
keep america new . it &apos;s time to accept reality .
there &apos;s an old african saying : &quot; if you want to be quick , go alone .
if you want to get far , go together . &quot;
we have to get a long way , and it &apos;s fast .
thank you .
i &apos;d like to start by asking you to think back to the time of your childhood when you were playing with building blocks .
while they realized how to reach out and access the hands , taking the blocks and moving them , they actually learned to think and solve problems by understanding and changing spatial coherence .
spatial thinking is tightly connected to how we understand a lot of our environment .
as a computer scientist -- inspired by the kind of interaction we had with real objects -- along with my professional patti and my colleague jeevan kalanithi , i started to wonder : what if we could use computers that , instead of using a mouse cursor , that moves like a digital fingertip on a flat surface of work -- what if we could intervene with both hands and physically take data and put it in the way we want it ?
this question was so profound that we decided to explore the answer and we developed siftables .
in short , a siftable is an interactive computer the size of a cookie .
you can be moved by the hand , you can perceive each other , you can capture your movements , and you have a screen and a radio receiver .
more importantly , they &apos;re physical , which is why you can only move them like building blocks by extending your hands and reaching .
and the siftables are an example of a new generation of tools to manipulate digital data .
and if these tools become more physical and develop awareness for their movements , recognize each other and perceive the enemies of our relationship , then we can begin to explore new and entertaining interactions .
i &apos;m going to start with some simple examples .
this is a siftable configuration for the video , and if i tip it in a direction , the video is played forward ; if i tip it in the other direction , it &apos;s going backwards .
and these interactive portraits are perceiving each other .
so when i put them side-by-side , they give them an interest .
this plant contains some very strong tryptamins that are very similar to the serotonin , dimethylyptamin 5 and methoxydimethylyptamin .
if you &apos;re surrounded by einader , you &apos;ll notice that , and you can get a little nervous .
and they also feel their movements and their tendency .
one interesting consequence of the interactions that we started to see was that we could apply everyday gestures to data , like pouring colors in the way that you do with fluids .
in this case , we &apos;ve configured three siftables as color pots , and i can use them to pour color in the middle , where they &apos;re mixed .
if we exaggerate it , we can throw back a little bit .
there are also some nice opportunities in education like languages , math or logic games , where we give people the possibility of the fast trial and want to see the results immediately .
here i am -- this is a fibonacci series that i &apos;m building with a simple equation program .
this is a game with words , which is a kind of mixture of scrabble and boggle .
basically , you get every round on every siftable random letter , and as you try to form words , they &apos;re tested on a dictionary .
then , after about 30 seconds , you mix again , and you have a new combination of letters and new possibilities .
if you &apos;ve ever seen the yanoma sniff this stuff , this substance that you make from different species also contains methoxydimethylyptamin .
thank you .
these are some kids who came to the media lab on a trip , and i could get them to try it out and take a video of it .
they really loved it .
one interesting thing about this kind of applications is that you don &apos;t have to give people a lot of instructions .
all you have to say is &quot; educate words , &quot; and they know exactly what to do .
here are some more people who test it .
this is our youngest beta-tester down there on the lower right .
it turns out that he just wanted to stack the siftables .
so for him , they were just building blocks .
this is an interactive animation of trickster .
to sniff this powder is kind of like being shot out of a rifle , being buried by baroque paintings and landing on a sea of electricity .
we wanted to develop a learning tool for language learners .
this is felix .
he can bring new characters into the scene by lifting the siftable from the table that shows this character .
here he &apos;s going to let the sun go .
the sun rises .
now he &apos;s bringing a tractor into the scene .
the orange tractor .
good work ! yeah !
by shaking the siftables and laying them next to each other , he can let the characters interact ...
... invent his own story .
it &apos;s not a distortion of reality , but the resolution of reality .
hello !
it &apos;s a story with open end , and it can decide how it evolves .
flying cat .
the last example i have today to show it is a music sequencer for live performances that we &apos;ve developed and operate in the siftables as sound like leadership , bass and drums .
each one has four different variations ; you can choose which one you want to use .
and you can put these notes in the sequence that you can put in any pattern .
and you put them in by just holding a ton seed to a sequencing .
there are effects that you can change live , like hall and filters .
you connect it to a particular tone , and then you tend to hire it .
and then over-ordered effects like speed and volume that you apply to the whole sequence .
in fact , i even discussed with my professor , richard evan shultes , the man who was able to put the psychedelic aprea on the discovery of the magic mushrooms in mexico in the 300s , and i said that you couldn &apos;t put those tryptamins in as a hallucinogen , because the moment you feel you &apos;re no longer there to experience a hallucination .
so let &apos;s see .
we &apos;re starting to put in the leadership voice in two sequencing siftable , and put it in a row , expand it and add a little bit more of the voice .
now i &apos;m adding a barrel .
now i &apos;m going to do some more drums .
and now i &apos;m going to connect the filter to the drums so i can control the effect live .
i can accelerate the whole sequence by tipping the pace in one direction or another .
and now i &apos;m going to connect the filter to the barrel for a little bit more expression .
i can reframe the sequence while it &apos;s going on .
so i don &apos;t have to plan them in advance , but i can improvise them ; i can expand them or shorten them .
and finally , i can shut out the whole sequence by tilting the loudfulness siftable to the left .
but the thing about tryptamins is that they can &apos;t be taken orally , because , of course , through an encyclopedia in the human intestine , they become denatured with named monoamine oxidase .
thank you .
so as you can see , my excitement is to develop new human-computer interfaces that fit better with how our brains and bodies work .
and today i &apos;ve had time to show you a part of this new design world and some of the ways that we &apos;re working on in our lab .
the idea that i &apos;d like to leave you with is that we are at the threshold of this new generation of tools for interacting with digital media , bringing information into our world that corresponds to our demands .
thank you .
i &apos;m looking forward to the conversation with all of you !
yeah , good afternoon .
i &apos;m happy i &apos;m there .
yeah , so , what should be biohacking ?
i &apos;ve got to get a little bit out of it , and that &apos;s biohacking is dealing with modern molecular biology .
they can only be linked to some other chemicals ordered by the mao denaturics .
i &apos;m studying molecular biology , and i &apos;ve been looking at biohacking for a few years now , and i started this because i just wanted to know more about it , and i wanted to do it in particular , and i wanted to do it myself , which i learned theoretically in the study .
so , that was my primary motivation .
so it was a curiosity , and i wanted to sort of get closer to the matter , like that .
i think that molecular biology is generally now , generally speaking , biotechnology , everything you count , synthetic biology and so on .
extremely important , now , is extremely important and much , much more important in the future .
there are some controversial things like all of these genetically engineered plants on the apples .
there &apos;s craig venter now in the united states who &apos;s trying to make biofuel , which is algae gasoline .
now , there are some things that have come in completely day-to-day , but most people are not aware of , for example , washing enzymes that allow us to wash at 40 degrees of laundry are also genetically optimized enzymes .
and you can continue the list endlessly .
and so from the interest of this , this technology , i &apos;ve just moved on to this point .
now the fascinating thing is that the betacarbons that are contained in the liane are mao-inhibitors of exactly the same kind that are necessary to potentially potential the tryptamins . so ask yourself .
so why do you hack ?
most people know this from the software range .
computers hack , and then it &apos;s always going to be like this , yes , the hackers break in somewhere and claw data and so on .
now , this is kind of very sad for the hackerscene , because it doesn &apos;t really hit what it actually started like , and what &apos;s actually behind it .
and this is an idea that , when you think about it , can only achieve you with hope .
and that is , the software hackers , in the &apos; 70s , started with computer tinkering , and that &apos;s what the internet came out of .
and it &apos;s about solving a problem in a playful , creative , original way .
and the problem , it &apos;s not just a technical problem , it can also be a social problem , it can be just a business problem , which is , you know , simplify things , you know , whatever problem you want to do , and how do you do it differently , or how do you do it better .
and it &apos;s just been raised with software , but there &apos;s also some electronics , there &apos;s also a whole tinkering scene that uses electronics circuits to do all kinds of things .
and right now , as well as biology , i want to take this metaphor that comes out of synthetic biology , that biology is actually an information science , because , the d.n.a code is an abstract code , which is , yes , it &apos;s not quite the same as computers , because it &apos;s more dynamic , because it &apos;s matter , so it &apos;s real matter , and not just cyber .
but it &apos;s also a code , and you can also program it , and you can also hack it , and that &apos;s what i found incredibly fascinating , and that &apos;s where i just wanted to get a lot deeper .
how can these people from a flora of 80,000 species of adstrinent plants find these two morphologically unrelated plants that , when combined this way , create a kind of biochemical version , so that the whole thing is larger than the sum of its parts ?
it &apos;s actually only taken two thousand really shapes , these networks .
there &apos;s hackteria dot org , which is originally from switzerland , which is with europe and cooperation based in india , but now has members or active people around the world .
this is a more artistic orientation , so there &apos;s a lot of artists and philosophers , and working with scientists , trying to deal with these technologies , and asking questions , and trying to process that creatively , there &apos;s museum exhibitions and yes , all sorts of things .
but it &apos;s really all about trying to find such a loose access to having such a playful approach .
and then there &apos;s do-it-yourself bio dot org , which is y.y.bio .
this is from the u.s. a network , which is actually more of a kind of forum where you &apos;re going to meet and discuss online .
they &apos;re a little bit more technical , and they &apos;re going to be a little bit more business , and then they &apos;re going to be asked , yes , applied questions .
and from these networks that have made the whole popular thing , it &apos;s been evolving a scene that i want to briefly portray .
in the upper left here , you see biocurious , which is a hackerspace , so basically a kind of school , a private school , a nonprofit contract where everybody can get there .
children , old , all sorts of people go there , just to deal with it , they set up a lab and look at what you can do when these lab protocols are on .
we use this great euphemism , try and error , which turns out to be meaningless .
here on the bottom left is a group in indonesia , house-of-natural fibers , which means that they &apos;ve been around for quite a long time .
for a long time than these other two networks .
they &apos;re also involved in an artistic aspect of biological materials , and , yes , electronics tinkering , and they &apos;re combining it in a pretty abundant way .
a group of ankara , which i met a while ago , they have a group of students who wanted to give the public more of what they &apos;re learning in college , and they &apos;ve done so on street fests , and they &apos;ve tried to explain what d.n.a is .
and i have a lecture up in the other image in copenhagen at the medical museum in combination with an exhibition on the subject .
and that &apos;s , yes , that &apos;s mostly quite young people , but the only thing that really brings you all together is this fascination of technology .
and what you can do with it , and you &apos;re also very keen to go and ask the society , like , okay , what do you know what you want to do , do you have an interest in bringing you in this way ?
so , o.k , to hack biology , you kind of need material .
you need biological materials , of course , and you also need tools , and that &apos;s a lab .
or , in fact , what you normally understand under a laboratory is that these are sort of abandoned machines , extremely expensive , extremely distance , just for professionals , trained academics with ph.d. and so on .
but if you ask the indians , they say , &quot; the plant speaks to us . &quot;
and our approach was just to say , okay , you don &apos;t really have to do that .
it &apos;s actually not necessary because every coffee machine actually has more sophisticated technology than most lab devices , that &apos;s really the way it is .
and s o with this premise with this premise , for example , brian degger , in england , tried to put together a minimum abor , then he took a steam pressure , a hot plate , and , yes , so soup breeding , and then bacteria grow .
so anyone who &apos;s been a soup , a soup , who &apos;s been left for too long , has been doing it .
so i tried this in my lab at home to expand a little bit , and then i bought this second-hand equipment on ebay , and i did some d.n.a analysis , and i tried a father &apos;s test , so that &apos;s how / d.n.a fingerprinting , to go back home .
now this shouldn &apos;t be a joke , but it should be .
so , down here in the picture , you see the lab , in leadership strikes , so this is an admitted garage with all sorts of lab scaffolds that the university has been doing , a group in paris that &apos;s been doing something , and it &apos;s pretty successful , and it &apos;s also quite interesting stuff , and i also want to cut a project for a second .
and this is biocurious , which also mentioned hackerspace , this yes , this kind of folk school , basically for molecular biology .
and yeah , so , you can see , it &apos;s relatively heterogeneous , so this is what people are doing on their own , up to the large , larger organizations that are already doing it in institutionalized form .
but it &apos;s always the approach that it should be simple and accessible .
so , what does that mean ?
the first project that we did as an international group , when we kind of became aware of ourselves , o.k , we &apos;re now here as a real scene , and we &apos;re online , and we know the people who are always chatting and so on .
and then just came from the do-it-yourself bio org website of the founder , and he said o.k , we have to really meet now , also real meeting , and then organized two events , one in london , two thousand 10 , and just after that in the u.s. , in san francisco .
and then it was also about , yes , who are we , what do we want to say , what do we want to share ?
and what are our values , and what are our goals , our foundation ?
and then we worked out a code-of-conduct .
that was quite intuitive , so everybody just said his wishes , his and what &apos;s moving him , then .
and there , in my opinion , was a very good code .
and then we don &apos;t have that bond , but that &apos;s true , i think , has been pretty well enforced , people are quite convinced that way .
and we even tried to bring it back to the academic world , but it &apos;s kind of not that way .
so i think we &apos;re from the biohacker scene , in fact , a step further than the academic world .
this tribe , the cofan , has 17 varieties of ayahuasca , which you all recognize at a distance in the forest , which seem to be a species for our eyes .
now , what projects do we actually do ?
one project that i did with the hackteria network in switzerland itself was that we wanted to build a so-called optical trap or optical pink .
this is , if you focus a laser beam on one in the room , you can catch little particles in the air or in the liquid , and then move in that focus , so it &apos;s captured there , like a tractor beam basically .
this really works , this is done in the academic setting , and then we thought , okay , well , maybe we can do this , then we took a webcam that screws up , turned off the lens , you have a microscope that scales about four hundred times .
you can see that down there .
and then we took a d.v.d brenner apart and we pulled the laser out , and then we tried to focus on this camera .
and unfortunately , that didn &apos;t work , but we still learned a lot about it .
this is another project that was done from the french group in paris , which was working , which is pretty cool .
and that &apos;s , you know , he &apos;s got a brain wave tracking device like this , e.e.e.g or something like that , so he &apos;s been dealing with neurobiology , his nickname is sam neurohack .
he then built this helmet there , and in the cooperation with the museum , that &apos;s what happened .
and then you ask them how they start their taxonomy , and they say , &quot; i thought you &apos;d understand some of the plants .
and then the visitors could go in the room , sit on this chair , sit down this helmet .
then your brainwaves were measured , and depending on what you thought , or how you thought , your brain waves have then gone on to different lights in the room .
it was a pretty fortunate project .
another thing from the united states , which has to do with this father &apos;s history , is the p.c.r , which is the polymer chain reaction , complicated word .
so it &apos;s about copying genes , multipliing genes , that is to reproduce fragments so that you can make them visible .
so if i do this now that the profilers at the scene of the crime , they go , they collect some hair samples , and then they turn on this method , and then they can say , okay , this hair belongs to this person , like this .
and the machines that do this are pretty expensive to buy commercial , the cheapest things go off at four thousand euros .
and that &apos;s not in the hobbysphere , but it &apos;s a really cool technology that can also do a lot .
so this is just one application of many that you can do with this .
and they &apos;ve come up with two builders , and they &apos;ve said , o.k , that &apos;s easier and cheaper , and then they &apos;ve just come out of open source , which is free hardware , electronics , that device , and they &apos;re now the ones that actually put that in the marketplace , and they &apos;re now the cheapest provider of these devices in the world .
i mean , you don &apos;t know anything ? &quot; and i said , &quot; no . &quot;
i think that kind of six-dollar or something like that .
but at any rate , it &apos;s still not cheap , but it &apos;s certainly in a frame where it &apos;s going to be much more available .
so , i think it &apos;s a very lovely hack .
one project that i had recently started building was a gene gun .
gene-gun is , yes , like a kind of air pressure gun , which shoots about this far , two centimeters or so .
you invite d.n.a to gold particles and the gold particles into this air printing gun , and then i shooted them on onions and then lighted them up .
so the device you see there , that didn &apos;t work .
but this is my prototype like this , but it &apos;s pretty much taken off , so on a branch like this , put the thing on it , put electronics on it and pressure on it , and that was the pressure that was too high , the thing was broken .
and then i took a juicer &apos;s pender and i put it on it .
a juicer , when you make the full of water , it has enough pressure , so i think , 40 to six hundred feet of cash on it .
so it turns out that you take each of the 17 varieties in full moon and you sing them in a different tone .
and then you can accelerate the particles strong enough , and then they go into the onion as well .
and the commercial device costs about fifteen thousand euros to go up , or something like that , saints about 50 .
so it doesn &apos;t have the same efficiency , but it &apos;s basically doable .
so , this is also the core cause of the scene , which is to increase the availability of technology and also increase the information and the understanding that more people can get engaged .
because , as i said at the beginning , it &apos;s an extremely important technology , and most people have pretty little idea of it , and also no chance of doing really well .
because if you just read about it , from secondary literature , that &apos;s not the same as if you &apos;ve done it yourself or seen it .
and i think technology is becoming more and more important in our modern societies .
and if , as an informed citizen , you want to be able to make meaningful decisions in society and you want to talk to them , you need the access to knowledge and to technology .
and you also have to do it and understand it in order to make it and understand it .
and that then firms open knowledge and citizen science .
now , that doesn &apos;t get you a ph.d. at harvard , but it &apos;s much more interesting than counting triina .
so that , as citizens , you &apos;re going to be able to deal with these scientific technologies .
and this is the core issue of the biohackers .
these are the people who at least officially agreed on the website , which is y.y.y.bio-dot-org website .
this is already a relatively remarkable number of people around the world .
and what &apos;s also interesting is that they &apos;re also represented in southeast asia .
that , i think , is there are fewer people in there than actually exist .
so i know some of you who haven &apos;t agreed .
and these are now just the biohackers , the individual people .
so , partly with these hackerspaces , these places together .
