you know , one of the great reasons in travel and one of the joys of ethnography is to live with the people who can still remember the old days , who still feel their past in the wind , touch them on the rain , taste them in the bitter leaves of the plants .
together , the myriad cultures of the world form a network of spiritual and cultural life that covers the earth and is as important for the good of the earth as the biological life web that you know as a biosphere .
now , the problem with this is that even those of us who have sympathy for the difficult situation of the native , look at them as orginial and colorful , but they &apos;re sort of constraining the past , while the real world , that is , our world , is progressing .
and that &apos;s at the very beginning .
as i said , it &apos;s only begun .
and hackerspaces , which is the computer hackerspaces , because the c-base in berlin was the first , ninety-five hundred .
and this has now become a huge network of very good , yes , infrastructure centers that have been represented all over the world .
and we &apos;re hoping , of course , that then we &apos;ll be able to spread out similar , and then we &apos;ll be connected in a similar way , so that people can be involved in it .
and i would invite everybody to do this and try something .
now it &apos;s not that simple , but it &apos;s not impossible , if you have enough curiosity and you put enough energy in there , you can get a long way .
thank you for listening .
that &apos;s it .
yeah , hello .
so , the fact is that in the 20th century , in 300 years , you will remember not for your wars or technological innovations , but rather than an era where we were opposed to and the massive destruction of biological and cultural diversity on earth either actively supported or passively accepted , so the problem is not the change .
how do we actually work ?
this is a question that really moves me as a designer , but also in the field of research usability and in front of all the things in the user experience .
it &apos;s about how you encounter people in interactive media , so they can use these interactive media , and they create a very satisfying experience .
because i think that the interactive media in us is addressing archaic , cognitive models , which are paradigms that have been embedded in our biological memory a very , very long time ago , and that we can just bring them back through interactive media .
and this is very amazing , because it &apos;s actually believed that this high-tech that you see that actually brings you into the future , but in fact , the future is right with us , in our archaic roots .
now , what are archaic models ?
i once wrote down four words , and i &apos;d like to explain to you for a moment .
to archaic cognitive models , these are the models that we &apos;ve adapted in the pre-industrial times .
to these archaic models , we have a sort of natural relationship to virtuality .
it sounds kind of unusual , in principle .
all cultures have been involved in the dance of new life opportunities .
but i &apos;m going to go back to that in a second , and i &apos;m going to prove to you that you also have a natural virtuality relationship .
the second thing is that since this archaic model , we &apos;ve been able to speak very , very visually , even though today we use a coded language .
and the third area , which actually explains itself .
we all know that interactive media is by definition nonlinear , which involves the sensitivity of linearity , and which of course tells us that we feel the linearity today as normal .
the fourth thing is that the story , for us , is a place of information passing .
now , what about the virtuality that &apos;s actually the most natural thing in the world .
i &apos;d like to prove this to you .
how many doors do you have the house in which you live ?
we &apos;re not going to be able to answer that to me spontaneously , but this is what &apos;s going to happen , and what &apos;s going to happen right now .
they go through this house in the mind , where they live , and they look at how many doors there are .
and the problem is not technology itself .
and that &apos;s exactly what they do .
they virtualize reality without computers .
fantastic , right ?
and we &apos;re struggling with the media campus , for example , to show virtual reality in our v.r. lab , and we can actually do it all the time .
and this ability to virtualize the virtual reality that people have needed in the pre-industrial times , because they didn &apos;t have anything .
they didn &apos;t have books .
or they didn &apos;t have photooligraphy .
they didn &apos;t have mass media .
the only thing they had was their head .
and in this head , the memory took place .
the sioux indians didn &apos;t listen to sioux as they were bow and arrow tasks when americans stopped being americans when they were tasking horses and horses .
in this head , knowledge has been rejected , and with these virtual images , the imagination , they &apos;ve just passed on knowledge .
and that &apos;s why it &apos;s so deeply rooted in us that we can deal with virtuality so well .
the interesting thing is , if i can make a little trip .
yeah , that &apos;s it .
the interesting thing about this is that at that time , the human being was simultaneously media producers and medium itself .
now , if you think a little bit further .
what are media today ?
then you &apos;ll notice that there &apos;s been a change .
but i &apos;ll talk about that in a minute .
the key tool of information training has been in history since all of the time .
not change and technology threatens the integrity of the ethnosphere . it &apos;s power . the ugly face of rule .
shame , priests , so-called knowledge guards , were exposed to preserving knowledge in stories .
and we &apos;re still very , very strong about stories today .
the author of the book of the story animal , jonathan gotcha , we &apos;re still banning a thousand hours a year with the receptions of stories .
that means for a child who has spent most of his life with the recipe of stories to the grandchildren .
now we think our love of stories depends on us as a child sitting on our parents &apos; lap .
no , no , far lacking .
this goes way back to the cultures of pre-industrial times .
but to me , in the realm of interactive media , what &apos;s really amazing about it is that we &apos;ve anchored by se in our biological memory , the ability to think nonlinear .
i brought you an example of the north american tribe of nootka indians .
and the lives lived in the coastal region of british columbia .
and as you can see , this is a very island area , and you had to sort of navigate from island to island to get food .
and they did this with what &apos;s called lead-maps .
you may know this already , if you &apos;re a little bit interested in this , from the australian native people .
they have similar principles .
they don &apos;t have lead-maps , they &apos;ve used the songlines , or the trauma lanes .
and what &apos;s interesting about this is that the navigation and the topography of regions could be depicted by songs .
where the language was subordinated by subordinated rang .
that is , you navigate through sound and through rhythm .
and these sounds and this rhythm have been the geology that represented topography of a region , and that also , of course , has allowed you to defragment these songs and put them differently and move back to the left , right , and also to the output .
why don &apos;t we sing to get from the top of a to b ?
or if we go to the mountains of tibet , where i study a lot recently , you &apos;ll see the ugly face of political dominance .
anyway , not to navigate .
what actually happened ?
this is what &apos;s happened , this is what &apos;s called the gene machine age .
we &apos;ve been moving in the so-called avian age before .
and the machine age happened , and what happened is the book , and it happened is photooligraphy .
and that &apos;s what &apos;s happened is that we &apos;ve shifted the responsibility for our memories and the production of our individual memories to external media .
on the book and on the image .
so , unfortunately , we have a little bit of a process of virtualizing god .
virtuality has suddenly become alien to us , and has nothing to do with reality .
bruce brown , a well-known design researcher at brighton university , has gone so far as to say that this mass media , he means the book and the picture , so not the tv , the internet , etc . , and so on , what we call mass media today , that these mass media has fossilized our memories and has virtualized our ability to virtualize .
you know , the genocide , the physical extinction of people , is widely convicted , but the ethnocid , the destruction of people &apos;s lives , is not only convicted , but generally and many , as part of a developmental strategy .
let &apos;s make a little intermediate .
from the avian age to the machine age .
what &apos;s influenced our thinking and our memory ?
and then the abandoned influences of the pre-industrial culture .
and they are more and more over-prescribed in the course of the centuries by the influences of the machine age .
that is , instead of individually remembering us , we have standardized , widespread patterns of memories that we can hang our personal memories on .
we no longer produce ourselves .
we have an abstract language that &apos;s abstract .
we &apos;re not going to think of it in pictures anymore , not in images , but we &apos;re coding it in our language .
we &apos;ve been used to things happening linearly .
and you can &apos;t understand the suffering of tibetan if you haven &apos;t experienced it at the bottom level .
and we &apos;ve accepted the linearity as a law , and there are only exceptions , like non-linearity .
what we have remained is the story telling .
we &apos;re still very , very arrested with the story telling as an information facility .
the question is , what &apos;s next ?
we had the bird age , we had the machine age , and we now described what we call the cyber-age .
it sounds very spacing , and it sounds very much like science fiction , i know .
but these concepts of cyberage , they bring us back these opportunities to rediscover our skills .
it &apos;s about virtuality , it &apos;s about non-linearity , it &apos;s about storytelling .
i want to just explain a little bit about that .
there are technical concepts like augmented reality , which is the augmented reality .
you can think of this cultural life web as an ethnosphere , and ethnosphere can be defined as the total sum of all thoughts and dreams , myths of ideas , inspiration and intuitions that have been created by the human imagination since the beginnings of consciousness .
i once traveled with a young colleague 6,000 miles from chengdu in west china across southeast tibet to lhasa , and only when i went to lhasa , i saw the face behind the statistics that you hear about : 6,000 sacred monuments that were turned into rubble and ashes , 1.2 million people who were murdered by the kades in the cultural revolution .
so if you look at google glass , for example , it &apos;s such a concept that what makes us recombine the virtual world with the real world , which is our affinity to virtualization , the virtual feeling as something normal , natural , is reacted .
another example is what &apos;s called virtual reality .
so crazy , of course , in the context of my talk , we &apos;re moving physically in non-existential , virtual worlds , all after the holodeck model .
and others , another example , are the ambient , intelligent systems .
these are rooms that are intelligent to a human being .
all of this needs the ability to accept our basic ability to accept virtuality as a real habitat .
i graduated , and i hope the video works , brought with me a very , very beautiful project , which is the bachelor work of michael burk , ann-kathrin krence , joris klause and jan-moritz trash .
and the two last ones are here today .
maybe you can just stand up for a moment so that you can talk to the two about the project .
and i brought this project with me as an example of how , again , this archaic , cognitive model is addressed .
this young man &apos;s father was identified as the follower of the panel of lama .
the whole thing is a game , i have to say .
which is , of course , extremely opposite to the story , and it &apos;s a computer game .
and when i say computer games , you &apos;re very likely to see that some people in front of any console or that they &apos;re playing with the mit with some console in their hand .
anyway , they &apos;re doing that in there .
this is a game for outside .
and this is intended to think that i &apos;m exploring the outside world , so that i &apos;m rediscovering the real world .
and this game connects the virtual world , which is the data that we produce with the real world .
i apologize that i have to cut so much .
and you can explain that much better , and there &apos;s a lot more to it .
and that is that i &apos;m exploring a city by looking at the places that were positively or negatively tweeted .
that meant that he was instantly killed during the chinese invasion .
and so from the city , i get a very different view , a very different impression , which is that i see negative and positive zones of a city , and i get a very different virtual map of a very real city .
and we can look at that now .
ah , what you can see here , sorry , is a little explanation of what you &apos;re about to see .
of course , this virtual world lives in the walls of our cities , it &apos;s clear .
and with a kind of flashlight , we can make these virtual worlds visible .
so , i &apos;d like to wrap up my talk , and that is that the characteristics and skills that we &apos;ve acquired from the vocabulary age , and that have gone a little bit blurry in the machine age , that with the help of what we call the cyber age , we can activate , in this way , about complex , technological , new products actually , not into the future , but actually come back to us to our roots .
thank you .
yes , i &apos;m very pleased to be with them .
i &apos;ve just been asked if this sack is a talking bag , and i &apos;m going to talk instead of mine .
he &apos;s not going to do that .
his uncle flew into the diaspora with her holiness , which brought people to nepal .
i &apos;m also going to resolve what &apos;s in there .
but i &apos;m just going to make it a little bit curious .
yes , children are naturally curious , or should be curious , designers .
i &apos;m a creator of house , so i &apos;m also involved in the subject of curiosity , and how does the curiosity change our thinking again , and why we might lose curiosity and have to repel it and so on .
this is a whole range of things that you &apos;re dealing with next to the actual existence as a creator .
when professors are curious , they &apos;re often pushed into this kind of research semester .
and that &apos;s what i &apos;ve had in the last half-year .
a research semester on natural user interface design .
now , you &apos;re going to be wondering , why do all of this creature begin to deal with such natural , archaic forms of communication , interaction and so on ?
and i &apos;m just holding one of these little devices up , because things are supposed to be more intuitive , more natural , user-friendly , and you have to look at it , which is , of course , for us humans , what is user-friendly or intuitive .
his mother was locked in , as a punishment for -- being wealthy for crime .
and on the back , i &apos;ve been working in the field of natural user interface design , so the next generation of human computing , where in the relationship of the human computer , i &apos;ve been working on how our tools , or how the computer is transforming from the computer sukessive to the digital assistant .
so i &apos;ve been looking at when &apos;s natural or intuitive .
maybe you have to look back at that .
why does that even happen ?
so if we look at the evolution of our society , just briefly represented here , we &apos;re moving from the third to the fourth generation of society , or social form .
so from modern into the computer society .
every society is shaped by a primarily medium .
at the beginning , the tribal society is through language .
that is , you &apos;ve found yourself by talking about a common language , you &apos;ve been able to communicate with each other , you &apos;ve moved into the same cave , you &apos;ve created cities , you &apos;ve created villages , you know , and you &apos;ve sort of created tribal society .
but the primary medium was the language , something very natural , something very living .
he was smuggled into jail at the age of two to hide under her rock , because she couldn &apos;t live without him .
you also had to learn , so no small child can talk about nature , but we learn it in a sukessive and proportionately , of course .
that was then triggered by ancient society and the first form of abstraction .
this was a huge scream at the time , because , of course , you start manipulating the living language in the form of writing , which means what fluid and life is , i start and i throw it in stone , and i manipulate it .
and depending on how i throw and when i throw , it &apos;s a very different narrative than if there &apos;s a living kind of coverage .
but then sukessive took this script as a primarily medium , and got it .
and then the next generation that we actually live in today , primarily .
this is just the pressures and print with gutenberg and others .
at the time , it was just as much a monkey , where noble , klerus and others said , you &apos;re actually crazy when people start reading , and they want to talk afterwards , and of course that &apos;s completely fatal .
and now we &apos;re going to get to the next generation , and the exciting thing is that a generational shift is just every few hundred years , and we &apos;re really in this phenomenal stage right now that we &apos;re doing this .
of course , we &apos;re totally confused by this , because we see on the one hand the new media , social media , facebook and so on .
the sister who did this brave act was brought to an educational camp .
with the total transparency , what the new thinking is , what bangs on the old thinking , don &apos;t say that in the lasagne horse meat and no beef is anymore , or other phenomena , which is i just want to get it tucked , and i want to get it right .
and these two worlds are just banging up , new and old thinking .
and the exciting thing about this is , if you look at this , this new society , this computer society , is a lot of mechanisms , principles and archaic paradigms from the tribal society .
now , not at the local level anymore , but at a global level .
we &apos;ve understood that the weather is global .
that ecology is a global issue .
not if i think locally ecologically here , and the neighbor thinks less ecologically , it doesn &apos;t work .
that is , from the local village , a global village has actually become , with the same principles , as possible , of course , as possible , but also total transparency .
as you knew in the village , who has something to do with whom and when , this is what &apos;s happening now over this expansion of ourselves through these mobile ending devices at a global level .
it &apos;s that we know globally and we know faster and faster and better .
one day , she stepped out of forgiveness on a bracelets of maos , and for seven years , she had to go into a heavy work camp .
just as it used to happen in the village .
i &apos;ve just been looking at the background , what does it mean , what &apos;s still natural for us , what is it that we might have lost , but what &apos;s instinctive for us , so what is it that makes the difference ?
because a lot of times people come , they can &apos;t make it user-friendly so that anyone can deal with it .
so you have to deal with this , what does that mean , and not just change it , that it &apos;s different , but it &apos;s going to be better .
and of course , when is a little intuitive , and how can i make an impact on it as a creator , and make things so that they &apos;re a user-friendly , so they &apos;re very intuitive , because then they &apos;re fun and they &apos;re easy to use .
you &apos;re going to be engaged , even during the study , with the subject of perception and perceptual psychology .
and that &apos;s , of course , where you start looking and saying , okay , now i &apos;ll just look inside the inner self .
and what does it look like in there ?
so how do we work when we look in there ?
and what does it mean , of course , intuitively , and how do our channels of perception work , and how does the cognitive processing work ?
the suffering of tibetan can be intolerable , but the relieving spirit of people is something unforgettable .
because steve jobs once said you need to dig deep to understand how it works .
so you really have to look in the details , if i want to make something user-friendly or intuitively handable , which means that at the core .
and you can see that you have a our seven senses , most people think we have only five , now they &apos;re seven , and it &apos;s certainly seven , and certainly the next , eighth sense , and also , as an extension of ourselves .
and to look at how do we process information , how do we take information ?
just to say , what is information ?
information is every difference that makes a difference .
a lot of people use the word , but they don &apos;t even know what it means to detail .
but i have to understand , in the essence of nature , when does information become information , when does data become information and information , so that i know how to make things intuitive or , of course , handable .
and of course , how does design affect perception .
what we see here is , when i make things , i can confuse them like on the right , where i don &apos;t know what &apos;s salt and pepper , or i can sort of intuitively design them by showing things .
and at the end of the day , we &apos;re really in a choice , do we want to live in a monochromatic world of monotonia , or in a polychromatic world of diversity ?
so much more natural , in a vessel , but i see sort of where salt and pepper in there .
and when i tell someone , give me salt or pepper , they &apos;ll think about where &apos;s in the right place .
and just intuitively , on the left , and then i hope that there &apos;s no sugar in there , that salt is right now .
but also , our perception , how does it deceive us ?
for example , this perception in the context .
the right-hand circle looks bigger than the small one , even though that &apos;s not the case , but it &apos;s just the same size , and yet our perception changes depending on what context we put things in .
does anybody know what that is ?
come on .
pattern recognition should still work .
that &apos;s where it &apos;s going to be more like my glasses .
the ethnosphere is the great legacy of humanity .
margaret mead , the great anthropologist , said before she died , it &apos;s her greatest fear that as we move towards a thread , shape-free , generic worldview , we would see not only the whole range of human imagination reduced in a way of thinking , but that one day we wake up from a dream , and we forgot that there were ever other possibilities .
so it &apos;s a circle .
a second circle already starts to correlate or associate some similarity .
and if i put a half-boval on it , we &apos;re not only going to see one more unit , which is circle , circle and , but we &apos;re going to see one , we &apos;re not going to see three parts , one circle , one circle , another .
this is called the gesture law , or the design psychology , which is also affecting us in perception .
the key to the designers , they usually have this in the first semester , the great design laws .
shape-law of nearby , shape-law of continuity and so on .
often in the third , forget about it again .
but this is a crucially important component , if you want to make things that are very intuitive , too .
the next phenomenon , which is also very interesting to see .
sounds very banal , but it &apos;s so exciting when you get into it .
and it &apos;s humbling to think that maybe our species has existed for 600,000 years .
so we have the eyes in the front , and now you think we &apos;re looking from the front to the back .
that &apos;s wrong .
you &apos;re looking from the back to the front .
that is , they projy a premise forward that they see something that they recognize , unprecedented circle .
that is , we &apos;re just projecting our vision before we see it , bringing it back into our seheapparatus to say , okay .
i &apos;ve got cognitive feedback , you &apos;ve projured what you want to see .
and then that &apos;s there , and that comes back .
and then it goes forward , because the back doesn &apos;t trust the front , and it says , well , look again , and i &apos;m sure that what you see is what you want to see .
and then it goes back to the back , and then it &apos;s actually just seen .
so a very , very exciting process of how certain things are going on and in what kind of millisecond areas these things are going on .
the neolithic revolution that brought us agriculture , and at that moment , led us to the cult of the seeds , the poetry of the shame , through the prose of priesthood , and created hierarchy , specialization and surplus -- just 10,000 years ago .
i don &apos;t know who knows this picture .
there &apos;s exactly the same thing that i just described .
now , everybody &apos;s trying to see something out of this pattern .
i don &apos;t know who recognizes what .
does anybody see something in particular ?
a dalmatiner , exactly .
once i saw that , that &apos;s a dalmatiner in there , you know that .
you &apos;ll never forget it because i &apos;ll show you where the dalmatiner is .
now you see the dalmatiner .
and further , now you always see him .
the modern industrial world as we know it is barely 300 years old .
that is , i &apos;ve actually denied you now that you don &apos;t see any pattern in it , but i &apos;ve been conditioning you in a very short period of time to see this dog in this forbidden image .
and this is this projection of vision , feedback , vision .
now i know , and now i &apos;m projecting forward that i see the dalmatiner .
i see the dalmatiner .
so , very , very exciting processes that are then in this , yes , gray , it &apos;s actually not , but here , in this rosane mass , it &apos;s just going to happen .
does anybody know what three seconds are ?
long , yeah .
that &apos;s our present .
so , it &apos;s always interesting to know as designers .
if i know something takes three seconds for me to sort of get out of the present into the past loop , i can also bridge very well waiting times in which i &apos;m going to work with somebody in three seconds .
now , this surface story doesn &apos;t tell me that we have all the answers to the challenges that we face in the coming millennia .
that &apos;s what he has to do first as a present .
then it goes into the past , and so i can bridge very elegant waiting times , for example , on the computer , if i know this phenomenon .
what &apos;s going to take five milliseconds ?
yeah , milliseconds .
it &apos;s also a very exciting phenomenon .
this is the time when you fall in love .
that means , if you know that now , pay attention to who you look at for a long time , because i don &apos;t take a pipe for what can happen .
and six milliseconds , also a very exciting phenomenon .
this is the time period of most of the perceptions that we have .
that is , this first impression is happening at a rapid speed , how we perceive things .
if we ask these myriad world cultures about the importance of being human , they &apos;ll respond with 10,000 different voices .
and also , as we see things , what we &apos;re looking at , and how we &apos;re sort of leveraging against our environment , so that we can think about that in a way .
of course , the designers are not only dealing with the subject of perceptions and neural processing , or cognitive processing , but primarily , of course , with the subject of human objectiveness .
so how does a human being deal with certain things .
there are the product linguistic functions , so formalaesthetic aspects or formalaesthetic aspects .
there are signature functions where i know exactly where i have to reach .
but there are also symbolic functions , why does someone give for such a little day where hardly anything fits in , so horrendous sums of money , even though it &apos;s not that practical ?
we &apos;re more like the symbolic level , at the level of meaning that we &apos;re dealing with as a creator , of course .
back to my actual theme of natural user interface and the subject , which is , of course , behind it , is usability .
usability always means how can i get to a certain destination , or how can a user in a certain context be able to get to a very effective , efficient and satisfying goal .
that &apos;s what the norm says about it .
and in this song , we &apos;re going to rediscover the possibility of being what we are : people with full consciousness , who are aware of the importance that all people and gardens have to be able to flourish a space , and there are great moments of optimism .
how can i make something possible to use friendly ?
can i use that directly , or i need a manual , or i need a corresponding training for it .
and it &apos;s less usable or usable .
that i &apos;m just doing this differently and beautifully , doesn &apos;t mean that it &apos;s more manageable .
you also have to understand that .
and if you look at some of the software that we just saw , you &apos;ll also understand why ninety-nine percent of our software today is not intuitive or unintuitive , including the i-pad in many areas or i-phone , even though it &apos;s much more intuitive than classic software .
now , intuitive usability has not only been a fundamental economic factor since apple , a fundamental success factor , if i want to use technology devices to make people usable .
why ?
because we &apos;re usually using this new kind of usability , which is the natural user ínterfaces , for example , five times faster on average at our goal .
you have to imagine that if you do something of the classic softer , it takes five hours and only an hour with this new kind of natural software .
here &apos;s a photograph i took at the northern end of the baffin islands when i went to the narwhal hunt , and this man , olaya , told me a wonderful story of his grandfather .
that doesn &apos;t mean that you can go home probably four hours more , but your employer , or anyone , will come up with the way they &apos;re busy them with four hours .
but i want to say that , of course , it &apos;s a corresponding increase in achievement in certain things as well .
so if we go back to the software area , here &apos;s the first command line interfaces , which were very abstract , where it took months to deal with these systems .
and then the next one that has been working on the nem neural model or mental model like the software eergonoma , which is that you would have an idea of something , the metaphor , the metaphor of a desktop , to make use of the computer .
so not more zeros and ones or cryptic code , but just a metaphor .
that made this a lot more user-friendly , but , of course , it &apos;s much better .
the next generation of graphic user interface is working a lot more on behavior .
so , as a creator , i &apos;m much more likely to shape the behavior than the appearance .
that &apos;s also a paradigm shift .
that , all of a sudden , i think it &apos;s becoming unimportant for success , just as usability becomes an application .
the canadian government has not always been very well handled with the inuit , and during the 50th years in the breeding of our rule , they have been forced to move in settlements .
and if i go one step further into these natural user interfaces , where i &apos;m voice , by language , by touch , by gesture , and not by mouse and cursor , i have to control things even faster , and i &apos;m even more immediate .
but that also leads me to the point where do things get more intuitive ?
when you get more intuitive , and then i have to punish my little friend back here and look at , what does that mean , from a cognitive sergonomy &apos;s point of view , when is there really something intuitive ?
and this is always intuitive for us humans , when i have to think very little about it .
so he doesn &apos;t seem to like to think , but it &apos;s pretty easy to do .
the less i think about it , the more intuitive it is .
and what does that mean for the designer ?
that is , if we look at the fact that we can transfer existing action models from one to another , like the metaphor , i can use it as a creator .
that is , i can put an intuitive human model on a software and make the software much more user-friendly .
so , of course , the question is , what is the most intuitive act of us human beings , and now i &apos;ve been betraying .
the grandfather of this old man refused .
this is called the osit-model .
this is what each of us uses , and osit is an acronym , and it stands for guidance , for selective , for informed , for transaction .
that &apos;s what each of you does all the time , but it makes it unconscious , and it &apos;s kind of intuitive , or partly instinctive .
the model is already exploded in the womb , and it &apos;s interculturally , so it works around the world in young and old , and it &apos;s used by us all the time , without most of us knowing that this model is there .
osit osit itself is going to be about 50 to seven thousand times as much as we &apos;ve ever had activity , so you &apos;ve found that it &apos;s going to be less often punished than it is a day .
i can now orient this mental action model , select , inform , transfer to an interaction system .
and through this kind of transmission , much like the metaphor of the desktop , now not a metaphor of a physical object , but a metaphor of a pattern of action , an action principle .
and this is on a higher degree of usage kindness than the transmission of a classic metaphor , which is the desktop .
and if i transfer that now , for example , in which i orient as a supervision , selective as a choice , informed in the trap , it comes up to me , i can look at it in the details , and yes , transcend , i can throw it somewhere , or send somebody , or shop , and so on .
and then i can transmit that to you .
it &apos;s the symbol of all the things that we are , and what we &apos;re capable of as an amazingly knowledgeable species .
the family who was afraid of his life took all the weapons and all the tools .
i &apos;ll try to give you an example of this .
you know , everybody &apos;s eaten cake .
overview : now i &apos;m kind of interacting with the object , and i can zoom out , zoom in .
i &apos;ll get the whole overview , and i can now filter on this , and i can say , just show me all the things with chocolate , for example .
and all of a sudden , there &apos;s an interface that &apos;s much more intuitive and much more natural .
because i can grab the things like the bits , touch them , and they come up to me is significantly more natural than when , through hierarchically organized websites or other mechanisms , they can sort of make these things accessible .
imagination is more important than knowledge , and with that phrase , i &apos;d like to end by giving you a and again the clue , also designers have to think differently to come up with new solutions , and in that sense , thank you very much for your attention and please .
i want to give you a very specific aspect of curiosity .
the first one , when you grow up as a child , as a baby , is that you &apos;re taking care of what kind of divorce you have , right ? and depending on whether your parents have allowed you to play and coat more or less in the pottery , the more , in a way , your curiosity is , of course , woven .
and the curiosity can &apos;t learn .
now , you have to know that the inuit is not afraid of the cold . they used it to their advantage .
that &apos;s why all of you who are here and are curious , are actually people who have a property that you can &apos;t learn .
i &apos;m going to talk about basically putting all this environmental discussion , global demise , 40 years of club-of-rome in quality .
and there &apos;s a central point here .
and it depends on phosphorus .
give pee a chance .
every day they give + give about two grams of phosphorus , and every day they have to take two grams of phosphorus .
otherwise you can &apos;t have teeth .
they can &apos;t store energy .
you can &apos;t have bone .
we could only glide as an amorphous mollusk through the world &apos;s ocean .
the glides of their sledges were originally made out of fish that were wrapped in caribbean skin .
in fact , if we don &apos;t take a phosphorus and give it off .
and the amazing thing is that we &apos;re looking at something that &apos;s really self-understanding , but it &apos;s not like that .
because everybody is talking about energy , but nobody is talking about the phosphorus problem .
the phosphorus problem is much more critical .
we depend on two countries .
we have only two years of phosphorus , and already , by mining phosphorus in the world , a lot more uranium is being put into the environment than is used in all nuclear facilities .
in the last 20 years alone , fifteen thousand tons of uranium has been distributed in our fields in germany .
and that &apos;s what we &apos;re recording .
it makes leukemia in children .
and we think we would protect the environment if we were a little less harmful .
the man &apos;s grandfather didn &apos;t fear the arctic night or the blowing storm .
so , for example , the environment , saves less car .
shake the environment , make less waste .
protect the environment , use less energy .
but that &apos;s not a protection .
that &apos;s like , if i were to say , your child will only beat three times instead of five .
that &apos;s just a little less destroyment .
if we think from the weighs to the bathroom , our whole earth will become a cemetery sooner or later .
so just thinking from weighing to weighing .
and the most important thing is to look at the ground , first of all .
in the ground , over six percent of the carbon is stored .
he swallowed out , he let his pants down from sea fur , and he defected his hand , and when the feces began to freeze , he formed them into the form of a knife .
right now , we &apos;re growing corn , and we &apos;re losing between 11 and 30 kilograms of 30 tons per hectare , or the square meter .
that is , we lose about five thousand times more in the ground than we are reformed .
we can , of course , look at the garbage problem .
and it &apos;s all packaged , or content .
in openbach , for example , on the trash , 20 percent of the garbage is now wind .
and because we get older , the wind gets bigger .
that &apos;s kind of all of them in the precursor phase .
yes ?
a baby needs about six thousand wind .
we could reduce that by 10 percent , of course , but what does that do ?
he sprayed saliva on the sides of the fecalien measurement , and when it was completely frozen , he was amazed by a dog .
this is balanced in china in a second .
this is completely trivial .
so the question is , how do we deal with these winds ?
here &apos;s one of the evidence , by the way , that men are not pigs .
i want to tell you .
because the phosphorus is given to the pigs over the solid ingredients .
people about the urine .
yeah .
so men can &apos;t be pigs with this .
because that &apos;s what &apos;s going on , right ?
he contains the dog , and he improvised a dish , took the dog &apos;s skeleton , and improvised a sleeve , put another dog on it , and then dug over the ice customs with the fecalien knife on the belt .
traditionally , we think in the environmental discussion , we &apos;re too many in the world .
and if you tell the people that if you tell the people to exist , if you say that &apos;s better , you wouldn &apos;t be there , they &apos;re going to be subtle and hostile .
and so someone like al gore says , one of our great heroes , there &apos;s nothing more important than stabilizing the human population .
in israel , if you save a human life , you save the earth .
here it says , the more you kill , the better .
yeah .
the first question is , are we really too many ?
if you look at the ants , the weight of the ants on earth , the ants weigh about four times more than we humans .
i could also take termites , but in the united states , no one likes termites in such a way , even though they &apos;re vegetarians .
that means that the ants weigh much more than us .
that &apos;s how you can make something out of nothing .
and because they work a lot tougher than we do , and because they live only three to six months , they &apos;re in their weight , in energy consumption , a little 30 billion people .
that means we &apos;re not too many , we &apos;re too stupid , right ?
and where you see how far away we are , what we really wanted to get to , and how sad we are , that we &apos;re even on earth , you can see that , for example , openbach has a program , until 20 , you want to be here climate-eutral , right ?
you can only be climate-neutral if you don &apos;t exist , right ?
the only chance .
have you ever seen a climate-neutral tree ?
yes ?
one ?
that is , all of our intelligence means that we want to be dummer than trees , right ?
yes ?
and this is , in many ways , a symbol of the resistance of the inuit and all the indigenous people in the world .
no tree is carbon neutral .
luckily not , yes ?
there &apos;s no overpopulation problem with trees .
there are still six billion trees in the amazon area alone .
you &apos;ve heard about this before , some of the overpopulation problems of trees ?
that is , all of our intelligence means that we want to be stupid as trees .
and where you see , even in something like demeter , the most strict bio-agriculture , doesn &apos;t allow our own metabolic products to go back .
every year we lose three million tons of phosphorus that really would have to go back in circles .
and that &apos;s too many of us .
just about it .
the canadian government gave back the inuit in april 1999 the full control over an area larger than california and texas combined .
that means we feel so guilty about the earth that we say , there &apos;s no bio-land , no bioland , no natural progression , and as you all say , that allow our own excrements to go back .
isn &apos;t that sad ?
that &apos;s too many of us .
it &apos;s certainly meaningful to be less harmful in terms of oil consumption .
but where are we useful ?
we &apos;re trying to minimize our ecological footprint , but it &apos;s about having a big footprint that &apos;s useful .
we want to be good for society , we want to be good for the economy , but when it comes to the environment , the highest is not to be there , right ?
nullemissions , right ?
you can only have nullemissions if you &apos;re not there .
even if you were to shoot yourself now , you would have emissions .
and just like the biosphere was widely discarded , it happened with the ethnosphere -- just at a greater speed .
it &apos;s our new home country called nunavut .
so you can &apos;t solve that .
we can do it differently .
we can regain our nutrients .
we do agriculture in brazil where we regain the nutrients .
right now , we can get nutrients back in agriculture in this way .
we do this in china , for example , where we take the waste directly from it .
in china , a post-ttopf is still called honeypods , so to speak , right ?
and in our western world , we were always too stupid to bring our nutrients back .
that is , the whole western civilization-story is that the city has only always taken , but has never given back to the farmers .
and so the cities had to grow more and more because the farmers went to the cities , and the cities had to keep moving away their nutrients .
it &apos;s an independent area . they control all minerals .
that &apos;s why all the western kingdoms are always expanded until they haven &apos;t done the infrastructure , and then they &apos;re imploded .
yes ?
in china , it was different .
you &apos;ve done civilization for five thousand years , because you &apos;ve always been able to bring the nutrients back .
even today , if you &apos;re invited to eat in china , you &apos;re expecting for food to stay in until you &apos;re searching for the toilet .
because it &apos;s unfriendly to go and take the nutrients .
they &apos;ve been invited to eat them , not to nutrient theft .
that means you can see on the internet how to get the nutrients back .
and what &apos;s really nice about this is , if you do this , you do agriculture , you make biogas , you know , on a hectare country with five thousand people in favelas , so that a farmer can produce about a thousand dollars and wait for it to grow chickens and pigs , and ducks and vegetables and fish .
and the great thing about this is that the crime rate in the favelas goes back about nine percent .
an amazing example , like a nation , a state that can seek and achieve revision with its inhabitants .
so we don &apos;t have to control people to be as bad as possible .
we can support them to be good .
this is , of course , high-tech agriculture , but the plants carry themselves .
the byproduct is clean water .
and they &apos;re designed by the design that a farmer can just farm them .
that means that the crime rates go back .
and none of these facilities , we &apos;ve now built over a hundred and a half in the last 20 years , none of these facilities have ever been sabotted .
you could just throw in a liter of alleum , and then the facility would be ruined for years .
it doesn &apos;t happen .
that is , we don &apos;t have to control people to be a little bad .
and finally , i think it &apos;s pretty obvious to see , at least for those of us who have traveled to these distant goals of the earth , that they &apos;re not removed at all .
we can support them to be good .
that means we have to get phosphorus back .
and by the way , if you want to do anything from that , write down , in germany , the best appropriate thing to do is in france .
unfortunately , they &apos;re not in openbach , but maybe they can help the fraud people a little bit .
because the frared plant could best regain the phosphorus .
and it has to go back .
we see that , in fact , phosphorus is really critical .
and we see that it &apos;s quite successful .
we &apos;ve been using this in holland for three years now .
the dutch government has explained that they will be the first country in the world to recover phosphorus .
they &apos;re the home countries of someone .
but we need that overall .
you know , there are two countries that control almost 70 percent of the phosphorus resources worldwide .
there &apos;s an opec pile of orphanages .
these are six and 20 countries that control 40 percent of the oil supplies .
and we &apos;re going to be able to replace the oil with other energy carriers .
but you won &apos;t be able to replace the phosphorus .
that &apos;s not about making the existing a little bit less bad , but it &apos;s about making something right .
and most of all , to ask what &apos;s the right thing to do .
that is , it &apos;s about efficiency , it &apos;s not about efficiency .
in holland , of course , it &apos;s easier to understand , because in holland , the country is built on flowers .
they represent parts of the human imagination that go back in recent times , and for all of us , the dreams of these children , like the dreams of our own children , become part of the geography of hope .
yes ?
imagine , for example , if your wife is sad , if you &apos;ve annoyed her , and you come with 50 roses .
completely inefficient .
but it &apos;s very effective , right ?
or take a lip pen .
a woman in germany eats about six comma three kilograms in her life .
there we go .
that &apos;s not exactly right , scientifically , because we don &apos;t know how much is kissed .
but a lip pen , even in this illumination , i can tell you , is completely inefficient , but very effective , yes ?
one of the things that &apos;s beautiful about life is not efficient .
what we &apos;re trying to do at national geographic is we think that politicians never do anything .
that &apos;s why not resource efficiency , but efficiency .
asking , what is the right thing to do ?
not to burn the sewage a little bit better , and to deposit it and to lose all the materials for cycles , but to first ask , how do you close cycles ?
imagine mozart efficiently .
yes ?
if i invite you to dinner and say , yes , there &apos;s a tablet with open taste and a glass of water .
wonderful , &apos; ne ?
that &apos;s efficient .
everything that &apos;s beautiful in life is not efficient .
if you fall in love with somebody , efficiently ?
we believe that polemics -- we believe that polemics is not persuasive , but we believe that storytelling can change the world , and so we &apos;re probably the best institution for storytelling in the world . our website gets 35 million hits every month .
yes ?
that means that all life counts is not about saving , avoiding , reducing .
the whole environmental discussion .
we tell people , oh yeah , you don &apos;t have any environmental awareness in the south .
no , throwing away is just the right thing , right ?
in every place you throw away , from , yes , you create life opportunities again .
but the wrong things .
if you throw away the wrong things , you have a garbage problem .
in how we think from north .
there &apos;s a disadvantaged footprint .
156 nations send our tv channel .
when they walk , yes , every footprint destroys the ground .
because the ground is going to die off , and the wind , and the water is going to wash the ground away .
but if you &apos;re in italy , every footprint means that the water is longer in the meadow .
so , it &apos;s about creating a big footprint that becomes a wetlands .
not guilt management .
we say , in germany , sustainability .
yes ?
but if i ask you , how do you do that with your wife ?
so what do you say ?
sustainable .
our magazines are read by millions .
then i say , heart-hearted , right ?
that &apos;s the minimum .
so not saving , losing , avoiding .
every waste is nutrient .
and it &apos;s a lust when you see in italy , people in the high bow are throwing out the coke can from the car , and they &apos;re throwing it out .
because , you know , that &apos;s a fun thing to do .
it &apos;s a form of refour-behavior , right ?
you can show , i was there .
but with the right design , here we go .
we &apos;ve developed , for example , an ice cream package , which is at room temperature .
no biologist , for example , would argue that 50 percent or more of all species are just about to die , because it &apos;s just not true . and yet , this -- the apocalyptic scenario in the field of biodiversity -- hardly corresponds to what we &apos;re known as the most optimistic case in the field of cultural diversity .
and we &apos;re entering a series of travels into the ethnosphere where we take our audience to places of such cultural wonder that they will be blinded by the seen , and hopefully , one by one , they will take the central revelation of anthropology : that this world has deserved to exist in a variety of ways that we can find a way of living in a truly multicultural pluralistic world where the wisdom of all people can contribute to our common well-being .
they can throw them away where they go and stand .
in two hours , it &apos;s expanding everywhere .
and it contains seeds of rare plants so that they can throw away the biodiversity .
that is , we &apos;re useful , not harmful .
so there are two cycles .
not everything is supposed to be composable , of course .
a tv machine , or a washing machine , they just don &apos;t use it .
just the things that veil , like shoe soles , like brakes , like authors , that have to be like they go into biological systems .
the things that are just used go into technical systems .
but today we &apos;re just talking about the biological systems .
thank you .
yes ?
for example , the sneaker , right ?
very direct advertising , not for the company , puma per se , but for helping this company make these products successful .
because we don &apos;t make things free anymore .
yes ?
so , if i invite you to eat and say , this is free of chicken , it doesn &apos;t help you .
no , we find out what &apos;s in there .
positive .
so it &apos;s not like detox .
not toxic in it .
what i &apos;m going to show you first , as quickly as possible , is the basic work , a new technology that we gave microsoft as part of an exception just a year ago , which is seadragon , and it &apos;s an environment in which they can either be locally or removed with huge amounts of visual data .
but everything that &apos;s in there is useful .
these are the first shoes that you can put the cavalry launch on the pedestrian light , and the rubber can go in biological cycles , right ?
all of it is composable of it .
and of course , if we can do it for adidas , for nike , for hennes and mauritz and all the textile industry .
and that &apos;s half the world &apos;s wastewater problems that are caused by the textile industry .
that &apos;s why you help with them , ask people about it .
hey , puma , are you really serious ?
because they have changed the board twice now .
and i &apos;m not so sure they really remain here .
so , help me with this a little bit .
we see many , many gigabytes of digital photographs here , which you can seamlessly and continuously pick up , in any way rearrange .
but here we go .
yeah .
what &apos;s just been represented .
that &apos;s it .
we can do things now so that if you swallow them , if you break them , you can do them in biological cycles .
technical cycles are the same .
there &apos;s a direct back name system for this .
this is the first ecological backpack , actually , to go back to the cycle .
again , so in any store , you can get things back .
when you get to that , right ?
and it doesn &apos;t matter how much information we look at , how big these collections are , or how big the images are .
do you remember the angle again ?
if it &apos;s the garbage right now .
all over the place , these winds are around , almost .
in the countries where people come to money .
it &apos;s on the front of the deponia , but it &apos;s also in the landscape , right ?
if we change the plastics so that it can go into biological systems , if we change the water stores , inside , that they can go back to cellulosic , then they can plant hundreds of trees with a baby in israel , or in tunisia , hundreds of trees .
yes ?
just if you take these winds , you shrink them , you sterilize them , and you take the powder to plant trees .
so the baby is carbon positive for the whole life , from the beginning .
so we don &apos;t need to be climate-neutral , we can be climate change .
most of you are digital photographs of a camera , but this is , for example , a scan of the library of congress , and it &apos;s in a domain of 300 megapix .
it &apos;s kind of a behavioral poop print .
yeah , so to speak .
yes ?
we can do that .
we can reinvent everything again .
i started an institute to do that .
now , a lot of people are working there , and they can all get involved .
there &apos;s an extra bond to cradle to cradle , where everyone can participate .
so not saving , losing , avoiding , reducing , not debt management , but intelligent waste .
does that make you curious ?
it doesn &apos;t matter , because the only thing that the performance of a system like this can confine is the number of pixels on your screen in every moment . it also has a very flexible architecture .
thank you .
the work of interpreting .
music as a language .
in the description of my talk , it says that i , as an interpreter , understand me as a translator , in the english word sense .
interprets are translators of the written notes in clinical music .
that , as a translator , you don &apos;t just have to translate the text into a different language , but you also have to understand the deeper sense of words and word curtain , so that there &apos;s a useful translation , anyone who has to do with foreign languages knows .
already translating german into english can require more knowledge , because if you &apos;re talking about poetry or even poetry .
but it &apos;s very strange for layman , what we musicians do with our music language .
as an interpreter of a piece of music , i have only the written notes .
you think that the composer has written everything into the notes .
this is a whole book , an example of non-image data .
in fact , the notes are very vague and inaccurate .
these grades are about as accurate or inaccurate as a verbal , even though very seemingly accurate , description of a landscape .
because in this verbal landscape description , the smell of flowers is not smelling , the level of the green is just to refuse to not hear the sawdust of the wind , not to feel .
that is , the interpret has to translate these inexact attacks of the emergency language into another , namely audible , concrete , nonverbal music language .
today , i want to translate what i otherwise translate to musical , which is interpreting , again , into a verbal language .
so basically , a translation of translation .
so i prefer to do this in german , because if i had to translate it into english , it would be equally significant to me to translate the translation of the translation .
so , the music works for me as much as the spoken language .
the noted notes have the function of the letters of a script .
so it &apos;s not enough to just learn to read notes , and to press the keys on the piano or the right place on a violin string .
this is bleak house of dickens . every column is a chapter .
because that &apos;s just the letters you &apos;ve learned to paint .
the meaning of the letters is only when you can see the language .
so you need the learning process of music language at least as long as spoken language .
now , there &apos;s also a ph.d. , whether you learn it for the use of the neck , just passively understands or you can talk actively , to the musical mother &apos;s linguistic .
the work of interpreting starts to look like a theater director .
after you first chose a piece to play , because you &apos;re thrilled with it , you start exploring for the background of the emergence of composition .
you collect information about the piece in the secondary literature .
you read in the letters , journals , notes , or whether there are words , thoughts of composers themselves .
you study the works that he composed before and after .
you make comparisons .
to prove that it &apos;s really a text and not an image , we can actually do something like this to really show that this is a real representation of texting and no image .
the reasons to write it .
how and what did he feel ?
what were its circumstances of life , like society and politics ?
i &apos;m interested in all of this .
you think of yourself in that time by looking at , for example , contemporary images or reading literature .
but over time , as an interpret , you also have a rich knowledge about the composer you play more often , and it makes you easier to think and feel into him .
the composer becomes more and more a friend that you live with .
his cause to write the piece becomes more and more to my personal cause to play it .
now , because the notes represent everything but an accurate record of the cause of the composer , but just a scaffolding , i now turn on this scaffolding to fill it back with meaning and meaning .
and i say , in my own words , what could be written between this framework .
and the key indicator of this is the extinction of languages .
maybe this is an artificial way of reading an e-book .
i play explaining what these sounds might have to mean .
now for me and for the composer at the time , and what you might mean for him today .
every sound , every phrase gets a sense of it , because i feel it myself , because it comes out of my own personal scholar .
it has to be coherent to me here and now , otherwise i can &apos;t convince my audience that this is my cause .
it &apos;s always a very happy concert , if i can have the experience , the piece that i &apos;ve been working in advance for so long , to reexperience .
how to reexperience a happy new day over and over again , even though with the same rituals of life , stand up , breakfast , go to work , i do the same thing over and over again .
i &apos;ve gotten older a day , and i change seasons , my pulse goes slower at night than in the morning , in a concert room , it takes longer for the sound to come back than at home .
i perceive the breathing of the audience , consciously or unconsciously .
all of this is affecting me , and all of this is also affecting my experience with the composition .
it &apos;s wonderful , even if i &apos;m standing on the stage with a duo partner , and we have the same wavelength .
i wouldn &apos;t recommend it .
and then the same thing happens in a good , friendly conversation .
you bring in a new idea , and as soon as that answer is answered with a reaction .
it &apos;s exciting , because then things happen that we haven &apos;t tried and what you can &apos;t sample .
it &apos;s a lot of fun to make music in this way , and you as the audience have then experienced the way the music communicates alive .
so every concert is a different concert .
i &apos;m never going to play the same way as this moment .
i can &apos;t play as much as i can in 20 years today .
there i &apos;m going to have more life experience than i do today , and so i &apos;m going to have a lot more color nuances on my palette of music than i do today , on emotions and emotions than today .
sure , i &apos;m going to have some color pots thrown out , but i &apos;m going to get some new ones .
have a nice concrete example of this .
this is a more realistic case . this is a copy of the guardian .
it was on a piano curriculum for music students in my beloved old teacher , professor jbarrigen ude , a famous beethoven specialist , concert pianist and longtime professor of music college here in stuttgart .
unfortunately , i was way too young , so that he was already emerged when i finally started studying .
but i was very fortunate to meet him very early on , at the age of three , and so at my school , i was on his classes .
i was then seventh when i went back to one of his classes and played the last of the four ballads of chopin , which is a later work .
he asked me what the introduction of this ballad was to me .
this is such a tragic part .
and in my youth , i said , expectation .
and he was screaming , and he was like , you know ?
that has to be the difference in aging .
because to me , it means memory .
every big picture is the beginning of a section .
he was already over 60s .
well , at the age of 17 , you have dreams , but you don &apos;t have significant memories .
i play the piece every few years today , and it has changed for me , even though not a single note has changed .
every time it &apos;s exciting , because i keep reading something new .
an example of this from a very different area . monet painted the seerose x times .
it &apos;s always the same garden , but at different times of day , in different light .
he &apos;s transferred the seeroses in a different way , as he &apos;s seen , as they did at that moment .
his personal impressions of the seeroses .
the x exact interpretation of a piece is comparable to this .
by now , i &apos;ve been older than chopin at the age of two and 30 when he wrote that piece .
and that really gives you the pleasure and the good experience of reading a real paper copy of a magazine or a newspaper , which is a kind of medium with multiple sizes .
he &apos;s only lived nine-and-thirty years .
and it &apos;s important to me to keep looking at the notes , even though i think i can memorize them .
to keep twin practices , right with the composer .
because the notes are the only connection directly to him .
most of all , if he &apos;s died .
now , how do you start talking about the language of music ?
i said yes , it takes about as long as spoken language .
a lot of times , the music class is learning to read the notes .
you &apos;re basically learning to read before you just talk a word .
you learn to find the notes on the instrument .
we also did something at the corner of this particular copy of the guardian .
and then when all the fingers are moving in time and right in the way that it is in the notes , sound comes out , and it sounds like music .
if that happens freely , the student will get the next hard piece .
hardly spoken about interpretation in the beginning class .
well , there &apos;s a front of presto , which is a quick piece .
lento , slowly .
according and badge , f and b , etc .
most of you know that .
but even if you put these attacks on , it &apos;s still just a little technical .
and it &apos;s still not an interpretation .
i wonder .
we &apos;ve designed a false ad with very high resolution , which is much higher than a normal ad , and we &apos;ve added extra content .
i wonder that you often forget something very basic .
that , to make music on the instrument , your own musical and feeling should be there before .
that is singing .
a child who didn &apos;t learn to sing , because the parents didn &apos;t pretend , it &apos;s not going to do it themselves .
that &apos;s like learning .
it &apos;s necessary to have its own experiences and ideas of music , and then to get it through another way , through an instrument , to sound .
people who have never been singing have never felt immediately with their own bodies , what it &apos;s like to form a tone .
designing a phrase with his own breath .
because the music instrument is the extension of our bodies .
our vocal chords to sing , our hands and our feet to dance .
if you want to see the functions of this car , you can see it here .
so the hammer heads in the piano are the sequel of my fingers .
the melody comes from the healthy and the rhythm from the dance .
the constant coverage of music today is not that promoting .
you don &apos;t need to make music for yourself if you get bored .
not necessary to whistle or sing a song anymore .
every one of your own music is put in place if you &apos;re constantly sucked out with music .
sure , there are some of you who say , yes , but what do you do when i can &apos;t sing ?
i ask you , can &apos;t you sing , a , because you think you can &apos;t sing ?
or b , because they didn &apos;t learn to sing ?
they &apos;re not too late to start to find out if they can &apos;t , or learn , how to use these little muscles that hire the vocal chords , right ?
or other models , or even technical specifications .
because you can train that .
or c , because they &apos;re told they &apos;re uncomfortable .
and i ask , how competent was this diagnosis ?
did you get a second or third opinion , as they say right now ?
or d , you don &apos;t like music , and therefore you don &apos;t want to have nix .
but what i would regret , because music is a beautiful , communicative thing .
but maybe you can also reconcile them .
well , you see , in all cases , no one has to be a peculiar candidate .
but don &apos;t say that , i don &apos;t understand anything about classical music .
i can &apos;t tell if it &apos;s good or bad .
and this really captures these ideas to eliminate these limitations for the available place on the screen .
i say that , but i &apos;m sure you can tell if you like it or not .
because i don &apos;t think somebody says it , i don &apos;t know if it tastes to me because i can &apos;t cook .
so , you don &apos;t get rid of food , just because you can &apos;t cook .
so you don &apos;t have to get rid of classical music , because you don &apos;t play an instrument .
listen consciously and say whether you like it or not .
whether the music is too clever to you or too sweet .
tell me what you feel .
over time , they also get claims , and they want to have a little more spices in there , or even taste a subtle difference .
now , why do i require from my audience that it &apos;s actively listening ?
because the music is a language , and a language is there to communicate .
when each of you were born in this room , 6,000 languages were spoken on earth .
we hope that it &apos;s not pop-ups and other nonsense anymore -- that shouldn &apos;t be necessary .
an artwork you never look at has no power to do .
the food that was cooked by a chef or a chef , needs to be eaten and not just looked at or exchange recipes .
so please listen when a music is played .
it &apos;s not just a nice soundscape .
if in an environment where the adults are doing active music , or at least listening to active music , a child is growing up , it &apos;s easy for a music teacher to ask , what color does your flower have ?
can you play them in blue now ?
and the child plays , after a memorial break , instead of a red flower now .
and this sounds very different than before .
and that was the very first beginning of a musical expression .
so the first step into an interpretation .
of course , mapping is one of the really obvious applications for a technology like this .
and what happens when you play a piece today that was originally written a hundred , two hundred , or even three hundred years ago ?
meanwhile , the instruments have been evolving .
there was no piano in bachs at the moment as an instrument .
it just wasn &apos;t invented yet .
i think the stream would have been thrilled if he had the soundscape of today &apos;s modern piano .
i can now make the noises that the stream has had on the modern wing , which a baroque cembalo can &apos;t .
you also know from beethoven that he had heard more than he had become deaf .
today , a modern orchestra is able to play everything that an orchestra has rejected at the time as unplayable .
so the composers are dependent on us interprets that reinvent the pieces .
so that you can hear what you &apos;ve come up with in the mind .
and i really don &apos;t want to spend a lot of time here , except to say that we &apos;re also going to contribute to this area .
and also , what you would think in the mind today .
or what i &apos;m thinking today , because what you might have thought .
thank you .
you know what &apos;s envy ?
have you ever been jealous ?
and how did that feel ?
shredded .
i have a friend who drives a passerati .
and when i come , with my little v w piesel and i just put it next to you , that feeling comes up .
i &apos;m going to shoot something through my head .
but these are all the streets in the united states .
i say , ulf , what &apos;s the big car for ?
i mean , it loses half of its value in the first year .
and in fact , you work much less than i did .
why do i have to afford little car like this ?
and then i immediately think , that &apos;s unfair .
it &apos;s against justice .
and as i say the word justice , that unpleasant feeling is gone .
our organism has invented a great way to make such uncomfortable feelings as envy just disappear .
you can also try this in words like revenge or revenues or something like that .
i want to talk to you today about this mechanism , something that you &apos;re unconsciously familiar with , or something that &apos;s unconsciously familiar with .
overlaid at the top of the arduous image of nasa .
the mechanism comes from the lie .
but don &apos;t think of the lies you may have heard when people say no one has the intention to build a wall .
and then rocks open , so that he &apos;s going to shut them down .
you can see on a lie like this that the liar itself doesn &apos;t believe what he says .
it &apos;s easily reviewed that it has very different in its mind .
he just deceives you and not himself .
no , the lie that i &apos;m talking about has to do with fooling yourself .
you need this lie to get a livelihood , to get a self-deception .
they can be less easy , yes , reviewed or also brought down .
they need time .
now let &apos;s get something else out .
from that time , there &apos;s an anecdote that you may know .
spanish painter pablo picasso once portrayed a woman .
this woman then complained that the portrait would not look like her .
picasso says , just wait .
they &apos;re getting more and more similar .
at this point , and when you laugh , you can see how important this lie is and how much time it takes to experience something that artists are very good at telling us .
because artists have a disrupted relationship with lying .
the artist gives you something , and especially this lady , which she doesn &apos;t see when she just looks in the mirror .
the artist gives you a little bit of a portrait that you &apos;re only going to be familiar with when you look at this piece of art over and over again .
and then this unpleasant feeling disappears , because it couldn &apos;t look like you , and it &apos;s getting more and more similar to you .
this is actually live on the internet now . you can check it out .
here you have this mechanism that allows us to use the lie as a great invention to stabilize our lives .
and it &apos;s not just in art , it &apos;s also in folk gardens , in mythology , in stories , it &apos;s coming up .
you may know this idea of the lady who looked in the mirror every morning and asked him , who is the most beautiful thing in the country ?
one day , this mirror says , yes , there &apos;s a more beautiful one .
behind the seven mountains and so on .
and you also know how much hostility from that true origin , also the mirror can &apos;t lie , comes out of that true origin .
but we should just be familiar with the fact that you can &apos;t tell a woman that there &apos;s a more beautiful place else .
here &apos;s what we need to put under politically correctness over and over again .
we need to have this lie that holds us up the deception without which we can &apos;t even live .
not only do we have art , people &apos;s poetry , but we have such great lies in science .
this is a project called photosynth that really connects two different technologies .
and there &apos;s this story of the woman of the bischop of worchester .
she heard about this book by charles darwin , the origin of species and man &apos;s ancestry .
that the man should come from the monkey and , yes , there would be at least a common ancestor between humans and monkeys .
and then she ran to her husband , and she said , &quot; that &apos;s not true what charles is writing . &quot;
the human being is supposed to come from the monkey or have a common ancestor .
no , no , it can &apos;t .
and if it &apos;s true , then we have to prevent people from knowing it .
why do we have to prevent people from getting knowledge of something when it &apos;s true ?
because we can &apos;t live without that livelihood .
because we have this self-deception , this feeling of being great , descending from the highest creatures , not from such a natural level , from such a kind of unpredictable thing as an organism that still exists , a stone comparable , and other things that are unsustainable to us .
one is seadragon , and the other is a very good research on computer vision , which is from noah snavely , a university student at washington university , under the counseling of steve seitz at uw .
so , we can &apos;t do these things at all .
we have to prevent people from knowing things , especially when they &apos;re true .
so you can see how slowly this mechanism is going to resolve , and what the traces that it leaves that lead to something other than this magnificent image of ourselves , i want to give you another story .
a particularly beautiful story , i mean .
my wife told me .
she came from school one day , she &apos;s a teacher , and she told me about a student .
an autistic student .
she likes it especially because he has a tendency to sincerity .
and she asked him , what are your hobbies ?
and he says , well , i &apos;m in the fire department .
and rick szeliski was conducted by microsoft &apos;s research , a very good collaboration .
and because i &apos;m in the fire department , i &apos;m interested in pyro-engineering things .
yes , you feel it when you &apos;re healthier at this point . something &apos;s wrong .
i told my wife , whenever a human being in a moral justification uses the word because , we should try to replace it with the word .
do that , and then you get the sentence .
although i &apos;m in the fire department , i &apos;m interested in pyro-engineering things .
you feel that &apos;s the real truth behind the outcome .
this is a little bub that &apos;s not interested in fireflies .
he &apos;s interested in fireflies .
but there are no clubs that we can look around , where you learn how to make fire .
there &apos;s only the second best , the fire department .
now , a language is not just the total of the vocabulary or a series of grammar creatures .
so this is live on the internet . it &apos;s driven by seadragon .
and he signed up .
and you don &apos;t say that to your teacher , you don &apos;t like to put fires somewhere and enjoy when the fire comes up afterwards .
no , it just looks much better when we show that we &apos;re in charge of eliminating the dangers that others are creating when they &apos;re just laying fire .
here you have this little mechanism .
this evidence that , on the inside of the bub , he knew that he was actually related to the fire , but that he can &apos;t say that loud .
here you have this censor between the unconscious and the conscious who immediately jumps up without you being able to do something about it , and the things that you know to look very different , designed to make you sound much better for you and others .
and that &apos;s just how the words that we &apos;re using in the language of the politically correct speech are starting to happen again and again .
in fact , we know that something else is the case .
but we know that when we talk about that , the social relations are very , very delicate .
we can &apos;t just do that .
you can see this when we create these kinds of views where we can penetrate through images and make this experience multi-fold resolution .
it &apos;s impossible to present things like this in a society that &apos;s supposed to work .
so i want to show you what we found in my institute .
after which logic this deception , this self-deception , the willingness , a different reality than the one we actually know in the unconscious , that it &apos;s valid to spread outside .
i want to show you two , maybe three examples of this .
the first example requires what many of you know and some of you estimate , very few of you don &apos;t need at all .
i mean the soul .
what &apos;s the soul ?
the soul is such a spiritual , say , leibniz .
it &apos;s something that &apos;s not a stopp of material , material nature .
and if you have people who are profoundly convinced that they have a soul , or you can also say , who believe that they &apos;ve been brought from the soul to life , then think of it as if the soul is such a violin framework about them , not from matter , they &apos;re just from meat and blood , some rocky sort of , to the earth , built up to the earth , the delicate , unimportant , unimportant , dead .
but the spatial order of images is actually important here .
and now , from this soul , you think that it &apos;s kind of present in this cloudy nature , in this funny nature , anima , in the latin , the lufthalso .
and if that air cake comes across people , it &apos;s filled with dignity , with spirit , with nature that can only live , with soul .
and then he can walk away .
that &apos;s the idea of how the soul works .
so it &apos;s supposed to come from the outside to the human .
so we &apos;re supposed to think of them as something that &apos;s supposed to be present for our lives .
and if you have that condition in front of you , you understand the logic with which we experience that happiness , through a lie , to improve our world .
because now you can apply a three-sentence .
three phrases you know from school .
now this is a three-sentence that describes a logic .
the computer vision algorithms have held these images together so that they &apos;re able to confront the real space in which these images , all of which have been taken near the grassi lakes in the canadian rockies , and you can see elements of stabilized slides or panoramic imaging , and these things have all been put together in relation to each other in the space .
this is the hardest part of my talk , by the way .
here you need some logic , but also the willingness to lie .
because lying like this , you can just get this logic wrong .
in this three-sentence , three sentences occur .
the first sentence is , claus says , there &apos;s no soul .
so the second sentence is , if klaus is right , he doesn &apos;t have a soul .
now there &apos;s a third sentence .
i particularly highlighted it here .
a third sentence that immediately appears in people who have a strong sense of a soul .
they say , who has no soul , who &apos;s dead and can &apos;t say anything .
i don &apos;t know if i have time to show you other environments .
and here you can feel it .
here comes this logic in this , yes , in this deception talk .
you see it immediately .
the first two sentences , they &apos;re logically correct .
because i can claim everything .
the logic doesn &apos;t make a point about reality .
i can say the channel is a man .
and if i &apos;m right , the channel is a man .
if i &apos;m not right , the channel is not a man .
the logic doesn &apos;t make a point about what &apos;s true .
there are those that are much more spatial .
i can claim everything .
but the key thing is , if i &apos;m right , it &apos;s true .
so when klaus says , there &apos;s no soul .
second , if he &apos;s right , he doesn &apos;t have a soul .
these things are logically correct .
and now our miserable consciousness immediately , you can do something about it .
it depends on a third sentence that has nothing to do with the first two sentences , and it pretends that the opposite of the first sentence is already proven and assumed .
because , in fact , we have to prove whether or not there &apos;s the soul .
but with this logic that it just uses that two sentences are logically correct and a third one that looks like it &apos;s got something to do with it , so we can save our livelihood .
so , we pretend it &apos;s impossible to actually live without a soul .
i &apos;d like to just show you one of the original data sets of noah , and this is from an early prototype of photosynth that we &apos;ve been working on in the summer to show you what i think is really the punchline behind this technology , which is photosynth-technology , and this is not necessarily so obvious when you look at the environments that we have on the website .
and we &apos;re very happy about this .
we can continue to do these things in different examples .
in the present , for example , we have a very modern example that keeps filling the newspapers .
and for that , you have to present another philosophical issue , a permanent philosophy burner .
that has to do with the fact that we go back to the fourth century .
there was a scholar named johannes buridanus , and after that , the buricane esel is named .
the buricane esel is an esel that &apos;s made of pure nature .
he doesn &apos;t have that soul .
this is such a natural thing .
and if you place the exact one in the middle between two equal-sized hairs , he &apos;ll hunt .
we had to worry about the lawyers and so on .
because he doesn &apos;t know what haystack to go to first .
so he &apos;s right in the middle .
that &apos;s how nature is presented .
equal-sized forces with opposing cues resolve each other .
there &apos;s nothing going on .
only if you take another example , so if you immediately make a haystack bigger , it doesn &apos;t need any reason and nothing .
he automatically walks to the right thought .
if you have this idea that you &apos;re sort of driven in nature , determined by the larger pile that immediately attracts you , then you also quickly have the sense that there must be something like a free will .
and if we &apos;re already at the main here in frankfurt , i remember the max planck institute for brain research .
there &apos;s a scholar who &apos;s called wolf singer , and you sometimes say , wolf singer , there &apos;s no freedom of will .
this is a reconstruction of the cathedame cathedame , who was just in the computer with images of flickr , and just type in notre dame in flickr , and they &apos;re going to get pictures of men in t-shirts and on the university site , and so on , each of these orange clubs represents a picture that was heard as this model .
now we can form the second sentence again , and we can say , if wolf singer is right , he has no freedom of willingness .
these sentences are absolutely logical and correct .
and what we can now read in the newspaper almost every day , is what you find in that third sentence .
it looks something like if you don &apos;t have freedom of willingness , you can &apos;t take responsibility for your actions and your claims , and it &apos;s therefore inadequate .
again , you have it again .
now , the first thing you have to do is to prove if there &apos;s something like freedom of will .
but the logic of deception allows us to pretend that the first sentence in the first place is wrong , as if , of course , you have to take the opposite without proof .
and now you can just , if you want to do anything yourself , if you want to test anything yourself , and especially if you want to make people happy , practice that courage to lie .
practice that , for example , if you meet a human that you can say , there are no predictors .
and please don &apos;t use the german word for prediction , which is called prophet .
so these are all flickr images , and they &apos;re all in spatial relationship with each other .
you can &apos;t call that , and that would be a little bit incorrect .
say , there are no predictors .
immediately , they &apos;re going to experience one for which there are , of course , predictors , and you can &apos;t prove that .
and you already have a problem .
because while you &apos;re busy making yourself realize that you can &apos;t prove that there are no predictors , the man is very happy .
he &apos;s very happy about it because he deceived it .
because he put them on a pen that he doesn &apos;t even stop himself .
because actually , this person is not interested in evidence at all .
he &apos;s just interested in keeping himself free from the need to prove that there are predictors .
so , in the kind of shifting of evidence load , you &apos;re experiencing the brilliance of the lie .
a language is the expression of the human mind .
and we can navigate this very simple way .
and once again , if you have a chance to feel that three-sentence in other people , you do , because you will make others happy if you don &apos;t remember them that way .
thank you for your attention .
yeah , good afternoon .
i asked lilly if i could mention her , i asked lilly .
she &apos;s one of the organizers here from this great event , and she asked me if i wanted to give a talk here and give me my idea .
i have to say , you know , you got it , it was hard for me to start talking about my idea .
and i might like to introduce my island project to you that i &apos;m trying to imagine .
but it &apos;s , of course , the sum of a whole lot of ideas .
i &apos;m probably heard , the two nice girls are still there , and i &apos;m probably one of the generation that &apos;s made for this bad oil image , because i &apos;ve already started studying machine construction in carlshra , technical college , i think , today , i think , kit .
and then it struck me in the mid-80s , after berlin , because i wanted to do renewable energy , and that didn &apos;t happen in cardboard .
you know , i never believed i was going to end up working at microsoft .
there was the core research plant called leopoldshafen .
they were all kfa , even the jewish one was called kfa .
they &apos;re called project carriers today .
because a good engineer has either built great cars or nuclear power plants .
but something like &quot; n solar pendulum , &quot; which is sort of coming out of a hundred watts from the square meter , which was a toy .
and in berlin , there was a crazy engineering collective .
i &apos;m grateful to the premium cola man that he &apos;s rehabilitated the word again , because after the masonry fell , you couldn &apos;t even use the word , because everything on the left was bad .
but in the &apos; 80s , it wasn &apos;t like that .
it was just that there were self-administered alternatives , and one of them was sitting in the cross mountain in the multi-yard , where you suspect the evil .
so , the place of terrorism , but that was called the fuzzy dronics and made wind and solar energy , and i started in the middle of the &apos; 80s .
i &apos;m very grateful for the reception here .
and yes , a lot of what &apos;s been said today was very touched to me , because many , many beautiful expressions were in the process that i &apos;ve lived through .
i worked in the collectively for 11 years , which was grassroots .
we were 20 people .
if one of them said no , the vetoprinzip was completely crushed , and i &apos;ve spent 10 years doubting whether i was wasting my great engineering college , perhaps , to a devastating thing , because all my father &apos;s colleagues have always talked to him , you &apos;ve snuck the money out for your window in your child .
it &apos;s about insanity .
and that was really , really bitter , and then you get into this kind of phase , and it just kind of appeared to be a picture where i was wondering , after 10 years , a thousand d marrow , which was still , you know , groundbreaking , uncertainty in the collective , of course , whether that &apos;s really the great thing .
and then i got to six and a half , and then we got together with friends , i became a co-founder of the company solon , who then became one of the largest cell manufacturers in the world with the spin-off q-cells .
a huge success story , but we also have , of course , the problem of a growing company , and we then have two-thousandths , a small group , decided that we &apos;re going to start and go back and dedicate to the next topic of the future , and that is , i think , what we &apos;re looking at , it &apos;s going to be crazy again , and that &apos;s going to start again , and that &apos;s going to tell people what the gossip is , that &apos;s not going to happen , we &apos;re going to store the next topic .
and i brought you a project that i want to introduce you to .
and the title of the talk was , yes , how to get a hundred percent renewable .
i guess you can see that these are a lot of different kinds of cameras : everything is in the process , from the cell phone camera to professional slrs , a pretty large number of them that have all been put together in this environment .
and we just started asking with a relatively simple , crazy story , where could you use a memory that &apos;s meaningful today .
on this island , this is the island of graciosa on the azores .
yeah , that &apos;s the data .
there are four and a half thousand people living .
they now have a five-percent renewable rate of energy .
and the question is , why don &apos;t you have that anymore ?
it just doesn &apos;t go technologically .
when they build more wind power together , the system starts to fail .
i always tell the politicians , if they &apos;re in berlin adlershof , our facility .
they always say , why ?
and if possible , i &apos;ll find some of the strange ones .
we already have 20 percent in germany .
it can &apos;t be a problem .
but it &apos;s not true , we have seven percent in europe , and our web is physically the european .
if we had 20 percent in europe , we would have the same problems that people have on this island .
the question was simple , calculating that was two thousand in 2006 , the first contacts started with the island , but just calculate it .
how big would you have to be , in fact , a battery to get an island like this to 20 , 30 , 40 , 50 , maybe even 70 percent renewable .
and yeah , i &apos;m going to go one slide further .
the conventional system looks like this all over the world .
by the way , about a hundred gigawatts of electrical performance are added to the same base of the world .
that &apos;s the power of a hundred nuclear power plants , because it &apos;s going really fast everywhere .
many of them are covered by faces and so on .
the energy hunger of the world that &apos;s happening is deleted with this el because you don &apos;t need permission .
that &apos;s fast .
you put the box like this .
and then it usually looks like this .
in the course of three of these things , two are always waited .
yeah , this is what one sees down there , just the load .
we also got very accurate data .
and the wind , or the solar system , or whatever it is , is usually a back-up system , or a system that can only feed in small amounts here .
our goal was just to say , okay .
the one is going to be back-up and the wind , the sun is going to serve the burden so that they can map the larger proportion .
somewhere here is a series of photographs -- here they are .
and if you want to go over 20 , 30 percent renewable energy per year , so energy per year , not the performance right now , you have to turn off that one .
that is , at the moment , you have to make sure that the renewables can take over the entire network , if you will .
of course , they can only be manned here in some way .
nobody in the world has done that yet .
this is a little style , so you can also serve your rasian in the car about a little change judge .
people always ask me , what are you doing in adlershard ?
that &apos;s it .
but if you want to put together several of these interfaces , and they want to build a network , it becomes extremely complicated .
and our goal was , we wanted to get to 70s to ninety-nine percent renewable , and then here &apos;s the rest , the last 10 , 20 percent renewable , which is going to be very , very expensive , and it &apos;s not going to work , you do it from batteries .
that &apos;s going to be an energy carrier , which then , hydrogen , methane , power to gas , you know or sh , that &apos;s going to be it .
this is actually a poster of notre dame , which was really recorded .
they have to go to a season memory , and winter summer , and not just like tag-night night .
we just wanted to know , what about a normal , stinky electrochemical battery .
how far do you get there at all ?
and then they did a whole bunch of simulations .
and they simulated wind and sun and the load , and they came to the conclusion , a very exciting conclusion , that in the conventional system , which takes about 50 cents a kilowatt-hour , about four cents to get out of it after 20 years .
these were the very first calculations six years ago .
and then we said , okay .
well , that &apos;s great , then we have a business model .
we &apos;re cheaper than the same system when the same price goes up five percent a year .
and then we started negotiating with the insulanders .
we can move from the poster to a physical view of this environment .
what would all have to be done ?
i negotiated with investors , i looked for new social sheep .
we were only five people then to rebuild society .
and again , the representation .
the brown is , in a way , the conventional system , the green is our system .
that our system also has a price increase , because we &apos;re going to do 20 percent with this el , and we &apos;re not going to go through a price increase on the other things .
and the power-utility , which is the island electricity company , has meant , we love that .
we also want to support , but we don &apos;t believe you can solve the technical problem .
and so we decided to build a hall in berlin , where we can sort of map the electrical ratios of the island at the size of three to three .
that is , we &apos;ve been looking for the world &apos;s largest battery .
the point here is that we can do things with the social environment , and it &apos;s now collected data from everybody -- from the whole collective memory of what the earth looks like , visually -- and everything is connected together .
here it is .
it comes naturally from asia , in the case of japan .
and funny , in the &apos; 70s , it &apos;s been developed at bbc mannheim , now abb , and then it &apos;s been licensed to the japanese .
you can see it &apos;s a very , very large battery .
it &apos;s got a megawatt performance , and it can get that performance for six hours , and that &apos;s the battery that we kind of got out of the simulation technology .
and then they set them up .
we also have one of these same aggregate in the same size as it stands there , put it in the hall to actually put the entire dynamic behavior of this network , so in the hall , it looks like this now , and there &apos;s the big battery in the back , here &apos;s the big battery , here &apos;s all the judges that we simulate the web .
over here , we simulate the whole transmission system , the kilometers of physics of cables , to sort of map the vibrational behavior on the web .
and here you can see the whole thing again .
we can also turn up two hundred kilowatts of photovoltaics on the web .
and of course , we all share the same adaptability needs .
it &apos;s a means with which the soul of a particular culture finds access to the material world .
all of these photos are being connected together , and there &apos;s something bigger than the sum of the parts .
here we see the one again , again , the one , here &apos;s the whole , single aggregate .
and what we &apos;ve done since the last two thousand was the half-finished , until now , two-thousandth , basically everything that was here between the single system of electronics to develop software , we &apos;ve done .
so we &apos;re not a battery manufacturer , but we define ourselves as a company that &apos;s just between the battery and the subject , and everything in between .
you have to be able to communicate to the battery , you also have to be able to communicate to the web , and that &apos;s very complicated .
the nice thing about this island is that you can basically take everything away from the problems that we &apos;re going to get if we want to increase our share of renewables .
so this whole discussion , how is it going to move back and forth right now , energy turn , as it should , on the island , we have , for example , five to 30 percent excess energy , so we &apos;re tiring the wind and the sun .
natural light then offers smart grid .
so smart-grid , a huge topic everywhere .
we can start to integrate electromobility on the island , to ask , you can manage the burden .
that means , if you &apos;re seven percent renewable , you &apos;re not going to be able to do that without memory .
they get a model that comes out of all of the earth .
you can , through n smart-grid , you can , by expanding the nets , yes , you should definitely do that , listen to the percentage , but you will never be able to completely get rid of the memory .
and that &apos;s the message .
that &apos;s why a lot of people come and look at this , because you can see what problems you get .
if we turn off the one , you don &apos;t have that rotating mass that causes a certain amount of inertia on the web .
and our european network is basically just made up of loud rotating masses of big power plants , wherever the wave is spinning all over europe .
we look in this web , we see the 50 hertz , and when it becomes nine comma nine hertz , we catch some valves , then a little bit of steam goes in , and then we get back up again .
this is the system .
and of course , that &apos;s incredibly staggering .
if you tear that down somewhere , it takes a while .
the spinning reserve has at least 10 seconds to keep the net stable .
think of this as the continuation of stephen lawlers &apos; work on virtual earth .
and in time , they can react differently .
if you don &apos;t have that anymore , that rotating mass , you have to replace that with power electronics and electrochemistry .
and we can turn out two milliseconds with this big battery .
and then you can see what there are enormous speed possibilities there .
and the message is , we have to get rid of these rotating masses , if we sort of get our goals 20 , 20 , 20 percent , 20 , 30 , 30 percent , and so on , if we want to get to them .
then we have to break down our must-run capacity on the web .
must-run is easy to run the power plant to keep the frequency .
yes , that &apos;s a huge debate right now , growing from the coal power plant , because we don &apos;t otherwise , or gastores , because it doesn &apos;t work .
and we &apos;re just trying to make it clear that you can degrade the capacity , the must-run capacity , by bringing electrochemical stores to the web .
and luckily , there are a lot of studies now .
and this is something that grows , through the complexity that people use , and its use for the user is getting bigger and bigger .
and for that purpose , people always come and look at our trial at that , sort of , our island test .
and yes , the discussion is always about the question of , how far can you take a bit of a far future there ?
and a lot of discussions that i &apos;ve had in the last six years have been similar to the discussion that i &apos;ve had in the last 30 years about photovoltaics .
it &apos;s not , it &apos;s insane , it &apos;s child toy , we &apos;ve calculated everything , never calculates .
we now have 30 gigawatts of photovoltaics in germany .
this is a role model .
and i just assume that in the next 30 years , we will have the same capacity for electrochemical stores all over the world .
just that &apos;s how it &apos;s going to come .
there will be a whole bunch of resistance and arguments .
the beautiful thing is that i &apos;ve seen , in the last two years , that the scientists are putting themselves on my side .
their own photos are covered in metadata that another person has entered .
we have now gotten over 10 million funding projects to climb 10 megawatt-battery to the german net .
this is going to happen in the next april .
so from that , you also realize that there &apos;s a change there , and only from that defense to yes , to the idea that a hundred percent renewable is true .
and if you have a hundred percent renewable , it &apos;s like a self-sustaining system .
so far , in discussions , they &apos;re always trying to do this insulaner , they &apos;re making themselves a small net , and that has nothing to do with our connection and nothing .
the question is , quite simply , if you &apos;re completely independent of any fossil or uranium energy supply that &apos;s being drilled out somewhere in the world and taken to them , you &apos;re an island .
and then they only use what &apos;s on the sun and the wind there , where they live .
and this is a little bit of our vision of a reasonable energy supply , and i &apos;m cradle-to-cradle also grateful that they said they use solar energy .
and that &apos;s what we do , and as we get there , the talk of premium cola again , is that you can be a collective again and use solar energy , a little bit together here .
and yeah , i just want to encourage you , in the sense that you can be a little crazy and also have a vision .
if someone has been struggling to get all these saints and to tell them who they are , then my photograph of the notre steam cathedral suddenly becomes enriched with all this data , and i can use them as a starting point to dive into this room , into these metaverse that uses photos of other people , and therefore make a kind of overwhelming model of social experience with the use of other people .
and you really have to stay with it , but i think it &apos;s going to work .
thank you .
when steve lopez , columnist of the los angeles times , went through the streets at the center of los angeles one day , he heard a wonderful music .
she came from a man , an african-american , sympathetic , raw , homeless , who played on a violin that had only two strings .
many of you will know the story , because from steve &apos;s article on it later became a book that was filmed , again , with robert downey junior , when steve lopez and jamie foxx as nathaniel anthony ayers , the contraband who studied at the juilliard conservatory and whose promising career was trapped early on by his paranoid schizophrenia .
nathaniel left juilliard , suffered a breakdown , and 30 years later , he lived as homeless on the streets of skid row at the center of los angeles .
i recommend you all to read steve &apos;s book , or to watch the movie , so that not only do you understand the wonderful connectedness that came out of between these two men , but also how the music helped make that connection , and how it was ultimately the instrument , if that word game is allowed , the mithalf , nathaniel , to get away from the street .
i met mr ayers in 2008 , two years ago , at walt disney concert hall .
he had just heard a demonstration of beethoven &apos;s first and fourth symphony and came behind the stage to imagine me .
he talked about yo-yo ma and hillary clinton in a very hot and gregarious way , and how the dodgers would never make it into the baseball world series , and all of that because of the danish passage of the first violin in the last sentence of beethoven &apos;s fourth symphony .
and of course , byproduct of all of this is the vast , rich virtual models of every interesting part of the earth that have not only been preserved by flights or satellite images and so on , but by collective storage .
we got to talk about music , and a few days later , i got an email saying that nathaniel was interested in education .
i have to mention that nathaniel had a medical treatment , because he had already been treated with electroshocks and with thorazine and handcuffs , a trauma that followed him all his life .
as a result , he &apos;s now particularly vulnerable to these schizophrenic phases , and they &apos;re so bad sometimes , and he disappears for days , walking around the streets of skid row , always exposed to this horror and torture quals of his own mind .
and in the same kind of rice stage , nathaniel was when we started with our first lesson at walt disney concert hall , and he had this irretinal flicker in his eyes , and he was completely lost .
he talked about invisible demons and smoke and how someone wanted to poison him in the sleep .
i was afraid , not because of that , but i was afraid that i could lose it , that it could sink into one of its states , and that i could destroy it with a violin relationship , if i started talking about audio and arpeggios and other exciting forms of didactic pedagogy .
so i just started playing .
i played the first sentence of beethoven &apos;s violin concert .
and while i was playing , i noticed that there was a complete change going on in nathanite &apos;s eyes .
it was as if he was standing under the influence of an invisible doctor , a chemical reaction , whose catalyst was my game .
thank you .
nathaniel &apos;s manic anger turned into understanding , a quiet curiosity and grace .
and like a miracle , he took his violin and began to play some of the sections of violin concerts , and then he asked me to play them at the end : mendelsson , tschaikovski , sibelius .
we started talking about music , from bach to beethoven , brahms , bruckner and all the other bs , from bartok to esa pecca .
and i realized that , not only did he have an encyclopedic knowledge of music , but he had a close personal relationship with it .
he talked about her with a passion and a understanding that i otherwise only know about my colleagues in the philharmony of los angeles .
by playing music and talking about music , this paranoid , confused man who had just moved through the streets of los angeles , had become a loving , educated , excellent musician in juilliard .
music is medicine . music changes us .
for nathaniel , music means mental health .
because the music allows him to reform his thoughts and delusions with his imagination and creativity into something real .
and so he escapes his agonizing states .
do i really understand you ? your software enables you , at a certain point , within the next few years , all the images that are used by someone in the world are basically connected ?
i understood that this is the nature of art .
this is the reason why we make music : so that we can form something that &apos;s inside of all of us , our emotions , through our artistic lens , through our creativity to reality .
and the reality of that expression reaches all of us , and moves , inspired and united .
in terms of nathaniel , the music brought him back to a community of friends .
the redemption of music brought him back to a family of musicians who understood him , who recognized his talent and paid him attention .
and i will keep playing with nathaniel , whether in the walt disney concert , or in skid row , because he reminds me of why i became a musician .
thank you .
bruno giussani : thank you very much . thank you .
robert gupta .
robert gupta : i want to play something that i have stolen the cellist .
yeah . it doesn &apos;t matter anything but discovery .
i hope you &apos;ll forgive me .
so i &apos;ve known a lot of fish in my life .
i just loved two .
that first one , that was more like a passionate monkey .
it was a beautiful fish , tastier , good consistency , serendipity , a bestseller on the menu .
what a fish .
even better , he was raised in aquulture after the most supposedly highest standards of sustainability .
so you could feel comfortable selling it .
i had a relationship with this beauty for several months .
one day , the head of the company called and asked if i could talk at an event about the sustainability of the farm .
every language is like an old-fashioned forest of the mind , a turning point , an idea , an ecosystem of spiritual possibilities .
if you want , it creates hyperlinks between the images .
&quot; of course , &quot; i said .
here was a company trying to solve what this unbelievable problem has become for our chefs , and how do we keep fish on our menu ?
in the last 50 years , we &apos;ve fished the ocean as we &apos;ve been beating forests .
it &apos;s hard to overestimate the destruction .
90 percent of the big fish that we love , the tunas , the healing butte , the salmon , the swordfish , they &apos;ve collapsed .
there &apos;s almost nothing left .
so , probably or evil aquulture , fishery building , will be part of our future .
many arguments against it . fisheries pollution the environment , most of them anyway , and they &apos;re inefficient , we take tuna . a big disadvantage .
he &apos;s got 15 to one food processing .
that is , 15 pounds of wild fish are required to get a pound of the tuna .
and it does this because of the content in the images .
not very sustainable .
it doesn &apos;t taste very good either .
so here was finally a company trying to do it right .
i wanted to support them .
the day before the session , i called the head of public work for the company .
let &apos;s call him don .
don , i said , &quot; just to have the facts right , you &apos;re famous for growing so far out in the sea that you don &apos;t pollution the environment . &quot;
&quot; that &apos;s true , &quot; he said . &quot; we &apos;re so far out that the waste is distributed by our fish , is not concentrated . &quot;
and then he added , &quot; we &apos;re basically a world of ourselves .
this food processing from 2.5 to one , &quot; he said .
and that &apos;s really exciting when you think about the abundance of the semantic information that many of these pictures have .
&quot; the best in the industry . &quot;
2.5 to one , great .
&quot; 2.5 to one what ? what do you feed ? &quot;
&quot; sustainable proteins , &quot; he said .
&quot; great , &quot; i said . put up .
and that night , i was lying in bed thinking , what the hell is a sustainable protein ?
so i called the next day , just before the event , don &apos;t .
i said , &quot; don , what are sustainable proteins ? &quot;
he said he didn &apos;t know . he &apos;s going to demand .
well , i telephone with a few people in the company , and nobody could give me a proper answer , until i finally telephone with the leading biologist .
like if you take a web search for images , where you type in sentences , and the text of the website contains a lot of information about which image that is .
let &apos;s also call him don .
don , i said , &quot; what , for example , are sustainable proteins ? &quot;
well , he mentioned some algae and some fish meals , and then he said , chicken pellets .
i said , &quot; chicken pellets ? &quot;
he said , &quot; yes , feathers , skin , bone flour , reste , dried and processed for food . &quot;
i said , &quot; how much percent of your food is chicken ? &quot;
in the presumption of maybe two percent .
&quot; well , that &apos;s about 30 percent , &quot; he said .
i said , &quot; don , what &apos;s sustainable about feeding chicken to fish ? &quot;
there was a long pause in the line , and he said , &quot; there are just too much chicken in the world . &quot;
but what if the image connects you to all your images ?
i fell in love with this fish .
no , not because i &apos;m a self-righteous and good person .
that &apos;s actually me .
no , i actually fell in love with this fish , because , i swear to god who swallowed after this conversation with chicken .
that second fish , that &apos;s a different kind of love story .
it &apos;s the romantic way , the more you know your fish , the more you love the fish .
i ate him first in a restaurant in southern spain .
a friend of mine had been talking about this fish for a long time .
it sort of sued us up .
he came up with a bright , almost shamy white color .
then the scope of the semantic cross-section and the abundance that comes out of it is really enormous . it &apos;s a classic network effect .
the chef had cooked him .
stop twice .
amazingly , he was still delicious .
who can make a fish taste so good after it &apos;s cooked ?
i can &apos;t , but this guy can .
let &apos;s call it miguel . in fact , it &apos;s called miguel .
and no , he didn &apos;t cook the fish , and it &apos;s not a chef , at least in the way that you and i understand it .
he &apos;s a biologist at veta la palma .
this is a fish elevator in the southwestern corner of spain .
it &apos;s near the coin of the river of guadalquivir .
blaise , that &apos;s really incredible . heartfelt .
by the 1980s , the farm was in the hands of argentina .
they were growing meat cattle on what was basically wetlands .
they did that by dewatering the country .
they built this complicated consequence of canals , and they pushed water out of the land and out into the river .
well , they couldn &apos;t make it work , not economically .
and ecologically , it was a disaster .
it killed about 90 percent of the birds , which is a lot of birds for this place .
and so in 1982 , a spanish company with green bought the country .
what did they do ?
they have reversed the flow of water .
thank you very much .
they literally flipped the lever .
instead of pushing the water out , they used the channels to pull the water back in .
they flew the channels .
they created a 11,000 acres of fish -- barsch , seafood , shrimp , aal -- and miguel and his company completely reversed the ecological destruction .
the farm is incredible .
i mean , you &apos;ve never seen anything like that .
they &apos;re staring at the horizon , which is a million miles away , and all you see is flooded channels and this dense , lush march .
i was there not long ago with miguel .
he &apos;s an incredible guy , three parts charles darwin and a part of &quot; a crocodile to kiss . &quot;
okay ? there we were , and we fought through the wetlands , and i keuch and i sweat , we have mud to my knees , and miguel is quietly giving a biology lecture .
i &apos;m going to tell you some things from my book that , i hope , are in harmony with other things that you &apos;ve already heard , and i &apos;m going to try to make some connections , if you haven &apos;t noticed them .
here he &apos;s highlighting a rare equilibrium .
now he mentioned the mineral needs of phytoplankton .
and here , he sees a pattern of bundles that reminds him of the tanzanian giraffe .
it turns out miguel has spent most of his career in mikumi national park in africa .
i asked him how he became such a fish expert .
he said , &quot; fish ? i don &apos;t know about fish .
i &apos;m an expert in relationships . &quot;
and then he goes and falls into more rarely birds and algae and strange water plants .
and don &apos;t get me wrong , that was really fascinating , you know , the biotic community unplugged , like that .
it &apos;s great , but i was in love .
i want to start with what i call &quot; official dogma . &quot;
and my head became weak about this cooked piece of delicious fish that i had the night before .
so i interrupted it . i said , &quot; miguel , how does your fish taste so good ? &quot;
he pointed at the algae .
&quot; i know boy , the algae , the phytoplankton , the relationships , that &apos;s incredible .
but what do your fish eat ?
what &apos;s the food processing ? &quot;
well , he goes on to tell me that it &apos;s such a rich system that the fish eat what they would eat in the wild .
the plant biomass , the phytoplankton , the zooplankton , that &apos;s what feeds the fish .
the system is so healthy , it &apos;s completely self-sustaining .
there &apos;s no food .
and of those 6,000 languages today , as we sit here in monterey , half of them are not whispered into the ears of children .
the official dogma of what ?
never heard of a farm that &apos;s not feeding animals ?
and later , i was driving around on this site with miguel , and i asked him , i said , &quot; for a place that seems so natural , &quot; unlike any farm i &apos;ve ever been on , &quot; how do you measure success ? &quot;
at the moment , it was as if a director had demanded a stage change .
and we bow around the corner , and we had the most incredible sight , thousands and thousands of pinker flamingos , a literally pink carpet , so far the eye .
&quot; that &apos;s success , &quot; he said .
&quot; look at your belly , pink .
they &apos;re bad . &quot;
bad ? i was completely confused .
i said , &quot; miguel , don &apos;t you drag your fish ? &quot;
&quot; yes , &quot; he said .
the official belief of all western industrialized societies .
&quot; we &apos;re losing 20 percent of our fish and fish eggs to the birds .
now , last year , on this site , there were 600,000 birds , more than 250 different species .
it &apos;s become the largest and one of the most important private bird reserves in europe today .
i said , &quot; miguel , is a well-thriving bird population not the last thing you want to have on a fish ? &quot;
he shake his head , no .
he said , &quot; we &apos;re building extensively , not intense .
this is an ecological network .
the flamingos eat the shrimp .
the shrimp eats the phytoplankton .
so the pink , the better the system . &quot;
the official dogma works like this : if our goal is to maximize the common well-being of our citizens , it &apos;s particularly due to maximizing the freedom of the individual .
okay , let &apos;s rethink that . a farm that doesn &apos;t feed its animals and a farm that measures its success in the health of their predators .
a fish lift , but also a bird reserve .
oh , and by the way , these flamingos from the beginning shouldn &apos;t even be there .
they breed in a city 240 kilometers away , where the soil is better for the nest maintenance .
every morning , they fly 240 miles to the farm .
and every night , they fly back 240 kilometers .
they do that because they can follow the striped white line on the highway a92 .
seriously .
i had a kind of a journey of penguins , so i looked at miguel .
i said , &quot; miguel , do you fly 240 miles to the farm and then fly back 240 kilometers in the evening ?
the reason for this is that freedom is good in itself , valuable , meaningful , an inexplicable condition for human beings .
do you do that for the kids ? &quot;
he looked at me like i just quoted a song by whitney houston .
he said , &quot; no . you do it because the food is better . &quot;
i didn &apos;t mention the skin of my beloved fish , which was delicious , and i don &apos;t like a fish skin . i don &apos;t like it . i don &apos;t like it crunchy .
it &apos;s this sweeping , coded taste .
i almost never cook with it .
and yet , when i tried it in this restaurant in southern spain , it didn &apos;t smash after fish skin at all .
it tasted sweet and pure as if you were to take a bite from the ocean .
i mentioned this to miguel , and he was nodding .
he said , &quot; the skin looks like a sponge .
if people have freedom , then each of us is for ourselves to do the things that maximize our well-being and nobody has to decide for us .
she &apos;s the last defense before something comes into the body .
it &apos;s evolved in the course of evolution to see unpurifications . &quot;
and then he added , &quot; but our water has no purity . &quot;
okay . a farm that doesn &apos;t feed its fish , a farm that measures its success at the success of their predators .
and then i realized , when he says , &quot; a farm that doesn &apos;t have any purity , &quot; it powers massive , because the water that flows through this farm comes in from the river of guadalquivir .
it &apos;s a river that &apos;s carrying all the things that rivers now tend to carry with them , chemical pollutants , abundance of pest control .
and when it &apos;s struggled through the system , and that &apos;s the water clean than it came in .
the system is so healthy , it cleans the water .
so not just a farm that doesn &apos;t feed animals , not just a farm that measures their success in the health of their predators , but a farm that &apos;s literally a water processing plant , and not just for these fish , but for you and me .
because when the water flows out , it goes down in the atlantic .
the way to maximize freedom is to maximize choice .
a drop in the ocean , i know , but i take it , and i should take it , because this love story , as romantic as it is , is also telling .
you might say that it &apos;s a recipe for the future of good food , whether we &apos;re talking about bark or meat cattle .
what we need now is a radical new concept of agriculture , of one where food actually tastes good .
but for a lot of people , that &apos;s a little too radical .
we &apos;re not realists , we &apos;re enjoyers . we &apos;re lovers .
we love farmers &apos; markets . we love small family businesses . we talk about local food . we eat bio .
and if you say that these are the things that insure the future of good food , somebody gets up somewhere and says , &quot; hey guys , i love pink flamingos , but how will you feed the world ?
how will you feed the world ? &quot;
can i be honest ?
i don &apos;t like that question .
the more choices people have , the more freedom they have , and the more freedom they have , the more common good they have .
no , not because we already produce enough calories to feed the world more than just .
one billion people are going to starve today .
a billion -- that &apos;s more than ever before -- because of crashing inequalities in distribution , not overall production .
now , i don &apos;t like this question , because it has determined the logic of our food system for the last 50 years .
filling grain of herbivores , pest control tools to monocultures , chemicals to the earth , chicken to fish , and all the time the agricultural industry has simply asked , &quot; if we feed more people cheaper , how terrible can that be ? &quot;
that was the reason . it was the justification . it was the business plan of american agriculture .
we should call it what it is , a commercial in the process , a commercial that quickly ecological capital that allows that same production to happen .
this is not a business , and it &apos;s not agriculture .
our corn chamber is threatened today , not because of the declining supply , but because of the declining resources .
not through the latest mice and tractor inventions , but through fertile land , not through pumps , but through fresh water , not through chainsaws , but through forests , and not through fishing boats and nets , but through fish in the sea .
this , i think , is so deep in our water supply that it would not come to your mind .
you want to feed the world ?
let &apos;s start with the question : how are we going to feed ourselves ?
or better , how can we create conditions that enable every community to feed itself ?
to do that , don &apos;t look at the agricultural industrial model for the future .
it &apos;s really old , and it &apos;s done .
capital , chemistry and machines are on top of it , and it has never really produced anything to eat .
instead , let &apos;s look at the ecological model .
that &apos;s what goes back to two billion years of labor experience .
look at miguel , farmers like miguel .
operations that are not worlds for themselves , operations that are restoring instead of using , operations that grow extensively , instead of just intense farmers who are not only producers , but experts of relationships .
and it &apos;s also deeply rooted in our lives .
because they are the experts who are also experts for taste .
and if i &apos;m really honest , they &apos;re a better chef than i will ever be .
you know , i &apos;m right , because if that &apos;s the future of good food , it will be delicious .
thank you .
if i want to bring you to one thing today , it &apos;s that the overall of the data that we consume is greater than the sum of your parts , and instead of thinking about information overlapping , i want you to think about how we can use information to make patterns , and we see trends that would never have been visible .
so , what we &apos;re seeing here is a typical dying diagram ordered by age .
the program that i &apos;m using here is a little experiment .
it &apos;s called pivot , and what i can do with pivot is i can filter after a certain cause of death , say , accidents .
and immediately , i see another pattern that comes out .
and that &apos;s because in the middle here , people are the most active , and they &apos;re the most calculated over here .
i &apos;m going to give you some examples of what makes modern progress possible .
we can go one step further and then rearrange the data and see that circular disease and cancer are the usual suspects , but not for everyone .
now , if we go on and start sorting , say , 40 years or more , we see that accidents are actually the main cause that people should worry about .
and if you look at research , it &apos;s particularly true with men .
so you realize that looking at information and data in this way reminds you very much of swimming in a living information graph .
and if we can do this for raw data , why not for content itself ?
so what we have here is the cover pictures of every single sports illustrated that has ever been printed .
it &apos;s all here . it &apos;s all online .
you can like to test it after my talk in your rooms .
with pivot , you can dive into a decade .
you can dive into a particular year .
they &apos;re not taught to little kids anymore , which means that if nothing is done , they &apos;re actually dead .
this is my supermarket . this is not a big one .
they can jump directly to a particular issue .
now , when i look at this , i see the athletes that appear in this copy and the sports species .
i &apos;m a lance armstrong fan , so i click on this , so i have all the spending that lance armstrong is mentioned in .
now , if i just want to get a bigger overview , i could think , &quot; ok , what if i look at everything with bicycle bike ride ? &quot;
so i &apos;m going to take a step back , and i &apos;m going to make the point of view .
now i see greg lemond .
and so you get an idea that if you go through this kind of information , target , broader , zoom out , you don &apos;t search , you don &apos;t just surf .
you do something that &apos;s actually a little different .
it &apos;s something in between , and we think it changes the way information can be used .
now i want to take this idea a little bit further with about what &apos;s a little crazy .
i just want to say a little bit about salatdressing .
what we &apos;ve done here is we &apos;ve taken every single wikipediasites and reduced them to a little summary .
the summary contains a short overview and a symbol of the area that it comes from .
i &apos;m just showing the top 500 of the most popular wikipediasites .
but even in this limited view , we can do a lot of things .
immediately we get a sense of the topics that are most popular on wikipedia .
i &apos;m going to choose the issue of government .
now , after i &apos;ve chosen government , i realize that the wikipediatrics that are the most covering time magazine is &quot; people of the year . &quot;
this is really important , because this is a realization that &apos;s not in a single wikipedias .
that &apos;s just to see when you step back and look at the whole thing .
looking at one of these summaries , i can then go into the subject of time magazine , &quot; people of the year , &quot; and see them all together .
there are 175 dressings in my supermarket , if you don &apos;t count the 10 different extra olive oil and 12 balsamicoessions that you could buy to make a large number of your own salad dessings , in the unlikely case that none of the 175 in the store is right for you .
now , if i look at all these people , i realize that the majority of them are government officials , some of them come from science , some of them , even less , come from the economy . here &apos;s my boss , and one comes from the music sector .
and interestingly , bono is also a ted prize winner .
so now we can jump and look at all the ted prize winners .
you see , we &apos;re surfing on the web for the first time as if it &apos;s actually a web , not just from page to page , but much more abstract .
and so i want to show you what else might be a little surprise .
i &apos;ll just show you the new york times website here .
pivot , this application -- i don &apos;t want to call it a browser ; it &apos;s really not a browser , but you can look at websites -- and we bring this zoom-technology to every single website like this .
so i can take a step back and jump right to a specific section .
and that &apos;s important because all you can do is look at websites in this way , in the same way , the whole internet course in the same way .
so i can zoom in in in in my course in a particular time frame .
so that &apos;s what the supermarket is like .
here &apos;s the state of the demonstration that i &apos;ve been holding to this point .
and i can sort of bring back everything i &apos;ve been looking at today .
and , again , if i step out and look at everything , i can rearrange my course , maybe , after my search past , here , i &apos;ve been looking for &apos; nepotistic , &apos; here to bing , here to live labs .
and from here , i can go into the page and call them back up .
it &apos;s a metaphor that &apos;s used over and over again , and every time it makes the whole picture bigger than the sum of the database .
right now , in this world , we think that data is a curse .
we &apos;re talking about the curse of information abundance .
we &apos;re talking about &quot; drowning in information . &quot;
what if we could turn this situation around and turn the internet upside down , so that instead of going from one to the other , we can start to go from many things to many things , and by seeing patterns that would have remained hidden ?
if we can do that , that data trap will become , maybe a new source of information .
and then you go to the consumer electronics business to put together a stereo -- speaker , cd player , a cassette player , radio , amplifier . and in this one electronics business , there are so many stereo plates .
and , instead of just moving into information , we can get knowledge of it .
and if we know , we might even be able to pull out wisdom .
i &apos;ll stop with that , thank you very much .
i grew up with a polite portion of science fiction .
in my school , i went to school with the bus , every day , an hour per hour .
and my nose was always in a book , a science fiction book , which kidnapped my thoughts in other worlds and , in a narrative way , satisfied my deep sitting in me , insatiable curiosity .
and this curiosity also turned out that whenever i wasn &apos;t in school , i would go through the forests and go and collect &quot; samples , &quot; frogs and snakes and sheets and pond water , i would bring it all home and look at the microscope .
i was really thrilled by science , you know .
it was all about trying to understand the world and to explore the limits of the possible .
and my love of science fiction seemed to reflect in my environment , because back in the late &apos; 60s , we flew to the moon and explored the deep sea .
we can put 6.5 million different stereo facilities together from the components that are offered in this one business .
jacques cousteau came into our living room with his fascinating shows that showed us animals and places and a world full of wonder that we could never have imagined before .
and that &apos;s probably very well adapted to that science fiction role .
and i was an artist .
i could draw . i could paint .
and because there was no video games or this oversaw with computer-generated movies or all the imagery in the media landscape , i had to create the images in my head .
we all had to do that . when we read a book as kids , we took the description of the author and we projected it on the canvas in our heads .
my response was to drawing and painting aliens , alien worlds , robots , spacecraft ships and all that kind of thing .
in math education , i was caught up all the time by the teacher , like me , hiding behind the textbook , painting around .
creativity had to be out somehow .
and something interesting happened , because what fascinated me about jacques cousteaus &apos;s shows was the idea of a completely unknown world here on our earth .
you have to admit that this is a big choice .
certainly , i would never reach an alien world with a spaceship , which seemed quite unlikely to me .
but here was a world that i could actually enter , here on earth , and it was just as fascinating and exotic as all i had always imagined when i read these books .
so when i was 15 , i decided to be diver .
the only problem was that i lived in a small village in canada , 1,000 miles from the next ocean .
but i didn &apos;t get discouraged by that .
i annoyed my father until he finally found a dive school in buffalo , new york , right on the other side of the border where we lived .
i made my dive in a pool of ymca in the middle of the winter in buffalo , new york .
but the ocean , a real ocean , i only got to face two years later when we moved to california .
since then , in the 40 years that are now denied , i &apos;ve spent about 3,000 hours underwater , 500 hours in submersibles .
and i &apos;ve learned that the world of the deep sea , even in the shallow ocean , is as rich in fascinating life as we really can &apos;t imagine .
in other areas -- the world of communication .
the imagination of nature doesn &apos;t know any boundaries , as opposed to our own noisy human imagination .
until today , i feel the most profound awe for what i see on my dives .
and my love for the ocean lasts , with the same intensity as ever .
and when i went to a profession as an adult , it was filmmaking .
this seemed the best way to tell my inner urge to tell stories , with my need to create images , to unite .
as a child , i was always drawing comic books and so on .
so movies were the way to bring images and stories together . that fit together .
of course , the stories i chose from the science fiction area were &quot; terminator , &quot; &quot; aliens , &quot; and &quot; abyss . &quot;
at &quot; abyss , &quot; i was able to connect my love for the underwater world and the diving to the filmmaking .
so my two passions kind of intertwined .
there was a time when i was a boy , you could have every phone provider you wanted , as long as he came from ma bell .
something interesting happened at &quot; abyss &quot; : to solve a narrative problem in this movie -- and that was , we had to create a kind of liquid water creature -- we took back on computer-generated animation , cg .
and what came out of that was the first computer-generated software surface-figure ever to see in a movie .
and the film didn &apos;t bring in any money , actually , he just played his production cost , but i noticed something fascinating : the audience around the world was like hypnotized by the magic that went out of it .
according to arthur clarke &apos;s law , you know , advanced technology and magic are no longer different from each other .
so they saw something magical .
and i found that incredibly exciting .
and i thought , &quot; wow , this has to be involved in the movie art . &quot;
so we went to &quot; terminator 2 , &quot; my next movie , much further .
together with ilm , we created the liquid metal guy there , and the success depended on how this effect would come .
and it worked . again , we had created something magical , and the effect in the audience was the same , but we &apos;ve already played a little bit more money with the movie .
they rented their phone . they didn &apos;t buy it .
from these two experiences , there was a whole new world , a whole new world of creativity for filmmakers .
so i started a company , along with my good friend stan winston , who was the best makeup designer and creature designer at the time , called &quot; digital domain . &quot;
the basic idea of this company was to skip the phase of analog processes with optical printers , etc . , and start with digital production .
and then we did that , and we got a competitive advantage for a while .
but in the mid- &apos; 90s , we realized that in the creature-design and design -- which we actually started the company -- we got too slow .
i had written this piece &quot; avatar , &quot; which was supposed to push the measurement board into visual effects and computer-generated effects at a whole new height , with realistic human , expressive characters that had been made using cg , and the main characters should be all cg . and the world should be cg .
but the measurement pole was pretty much back , and the people in my company told me that we were not yet able to do that .
so i shifted this , and i made this other film about the big ship that goes down .
i sold this as &quot; romeo and julia &quot; on a ship , and it became an epic movie of epic dimensions , a passionate film .
but i really wanted to go down to the real wreck of the titanic .
what could be more lonely than being surrounded by the silence , to be one of the last people in your language , to have no way to pass on the wisdom of the ancestors , or to expect the hope of children ?
one of the consequences was that the phone was never broken .
that &apos;s why i made the film .
that &apos;s the truth . the studio didn &apos;t know that .
but i convinced them by saying , &quot; we &apos;re diving to the wreck . we &apos;re filming the real wreck .
we &apos;re going to show it in the opening sequence of the movie .
it &apos;s incredibly important . it &apos;s a good marketer for marketing . &quot;
and i convinced them to fund an expedition .
sounds crazy . but it goes back to the fact that your imagination can create a reality .
we actually then created a reality six months later where i found myself in a russian submersible , four kilometers below the surface of the north atlantic , looking at the real titanic through a bulleye .
that was not a movie , not a hd , that was real .
so that really blew my mind .
these days are over .
and the preparation for that was enormous . we had to build cameras and headlights and all kinds of things .
and i noticed how much these deep sea seats were like a space mission .
well , they were also highly technical and enabled extensive planning .
you go up into this capsule , you float down into this dark , hostile environment , where there &apos;s no hope for rescue , if you don &apos;t make it yourself back .
and i thought , &quot; wow , that &apos;s the same as if i was in a science fiction movie .
that &apos;s really cool . &quot;
i was really obsessed with exploring the deep sea .
anyway , from the part that has to do with curiosity and science . it was all . it was adventure , it was curiosity . it was imagination .
and it was an experience that hollywood couldn &apos;t give me .
because , you know , i could imagine a creature for which we could then design a visual effect , but i couldn &apos;t imagine what i was going to see outside the window .
we now have almost an infinite choice of telephones , especially in the world of mobile phones .
in some of the following expeditions , i &apos;ve seen creatures in thermal vents , and sometimes things that i &apos;ve never seen before , sometimes things that nobody had ever seen before , and science had found , at the time , when we saw them , no words at all .
so that really flipped me around , and i wanted more .
and so i made a slightly unusual decision .
after the success of titanic , i said , &quot; okay , i want to put my main job as a filmmaker in hollywood , and i &apos;m going to be a full-time researcher for a while . &quot;
and then we started to dive to the bismarck , and we studied them with robotic experiences .
we went back to the wreck of the titanic .
we took little robots that we built that wrapped a fiber glass cable .
our intention was to dive in and look at the inside of the ship , which had never been done before .
nobody had ever explored the inside of the wreck . you didn &apos;t have any means to do it . so we developed the technology we needed .
now , i &apos;m sitting on the deck of the titanic , in a submersible , and i &apos;m looking at planks that are quite similar to these boards , and i know that once the band has played there .
these are the mobile phones of the future .
and i fly with a little robotic experience through the gears of the ship .
i &apos;m actually just doing it , but my consciousness is within the vehicle .
it felt like i was physically on the ship wreck of the titanic .
this was the most surreal form of a déjna vu that i &apos;ve ever experienced , because before i bow around a corner each other , i &apos;ve always known what would happen in the light cone of the vehicle , because i &apos;d run over the movie for months when we were shooting the movie .
because the set was an accurate copy of the blueprint of the ship .
so this was a very strange experience .
she made me realize this telepresence experience that you can use robotic avatars like this , and therefore make your own consciousness into the vehicle , into this different form of existence .
it was really incredibly profound .
and maybe a little bit of a view of what might happen in a few decades , if you have cyborg bodies to explore something , or to do other things , in all kinds of post-humane futures that i can think of as a science fiction fan .
after these expeditions , we started to really learn what we had seen down there , for example , these deep sea sources , where we saw these incredibly amazing animals , and these are sort of aliens , but here on earth .
my favorite is the one in the middle -- mp3 playground , wet hair trimmer and crème brème fackel .
they live with chemosynthesis .
they don &apos;t exist in a sunlight system , as we do .
and so you see animals that are right next to a 500 degrees celsius that they can survive there .
at the same time , i was also very interested in space science , which was , again , the science fiction influence from my childhood .
and so i ended up with the people who were interested in space and who have to do with nasa and sit at nasa &apos;s nasa expertise and plan right space missions , and they go to russia , and they go through the mission of the biomedical protocol , and they go through it all around and around it , and they fly to the international space station , and they take our 3d camera systems .
that was fascinating .
but at the end of the day , it was that i took space scientists with us to the deep sea .
i took them , and i got them access to the world down there : astrobiologists , planetary scientists , people who were interested in such extreme situations , and i took them to the sources so they could look around , sample and test instruments and so on .
we did a documentary , but we actually did science , which is space science .
so the circle between my existence as a science fiction fan , at the time as a child , and the translation into reality .
and if you haven &apos;t seen that in your business , you can be sure you &apos;re going to be .
in the course of this journey of discovery , i &apos;ve learned a lot .
i &apos;ve learned a lot about science , but i certainly think now , a director has to be able to lead , a leader like a ship captain or something .
but i didn &apos;t understand much about leadership until i joined these expeditions .
because at some point , i had to say to myself , &quot; what am i doing here ?
why do i do that ? what &apos;s going on ? &quot;
these stupid movies don &apos;t bring us any money .
we &apos;re going to play the production cost . we &apos;re not going to have a trace .
everybody thinks i was between &quot; titanic &quot; and &quot; avatar , &quot; and somewhere would have been celebrating the nails on a towel on a beach .
i made all these films , these documentary films , for a very small audience .
no fame , no honor , no money . what do you do ?
and what it does is it makes people walk into business and ask that question .
you do it for the sake of the challenge -- and the ocean is the most challenging environment that is there . you do it for the discovery space , and because of the strange connection that comes out when a small group of people form a team .
because we &apos;ve done all this with only 10 to 12 people who &apos;ve been working uninterrupted for years , sometimes we &apos;ve been in lake for two to three months .
and in this community , you realize that the most important thing is the contempt that you have in front of each other , because you &apos;ve done a task that you can &apos;t explain to anyone else .
when you go back to land and you say , &quot; we have to do it , the fiberglass , the sound debris , and all the way around , all the technology , and the difficulty , the human performance , if you &apos;re working on the sea , &quot; you just can &apos;t explain the other thing . it &apos;s like in policemen or soldiers who have done something in common and know that they can never explain it .
there &apos;s a connection , a mutual respect .
so when i came back to make my next film , &quot; avatar , &quot; i tried to use the same leadership style , which was that you respect your team and you deserve respect in the opposite direction .
that really changed the dynamics .
so i stood back with a little team on unknown terrain , and we turned &quot; avatar &quot; with a new technology that didn &apos;t exist before .
incredibly exciting .
an enormous challenge .
now do you know what the answer to this question is ?
and we became a real family for four and a half years .
so my way of making films was completely changed .
there were people who thought we &apos;d actually done a really good job of taking these ocean creatures and transporting them to the planet pandora .
for me , it was more of a sort of principle of doing my job , the actual process that changed in the outcome .
so what can we conclude from all this ?
what lessons have we learned ?
i think the curiosity is first .
it &apos;s the most powerful human property .
our imagination is a force that can even create reality .
and your team &apos;s attention is more important than any lorbeer in the world .
the answer is no .
i get young filmmakers who say , &quot; give me a advice about how to do this . &quot;
and i say , &quot; don &apos;t confine yourself .
get others for you . don &apos;t do it for yourself , don &apos;t bet against yourself . take risks for you . &quot;
nasa has such a favorite sentence : &quot; failure is not an alternative . &quot;
but in art and exploring , failure has to be an alternative , because that &apos;s where it guarantees a trust proposition .
no important endeavor that innovation demanded was ever taken without risk .
you have to be willing to take risks like this .
that &apos;s the idea that i &apos;d like to leave you with . failure is quite an alternative , but fear is not . thank you .
today , i &apos;m going to talk to you about energy and climate .
and this may be a little bit surprising , because my full-time work at the foundation is mainly about vaccines and seed to make the things that we need to invent and deliver to make the poorest two billion a better life .
it &apos;s not possible to buy a mobile phone that doesn &apos;t do too much .
but energy and climate are extremely important for these people , actually more important than anyone on the planet .
climate change is that their seeds are not going to grow over many years , we &apos;re going to rain too much or too little . things are going to change the way they can &apos;t sustain their fragile environment .
this leads to starvation . it leads to uncertainty . it leads to unrest .
so , a climate change is going to be terrible for you .
and also , the energy cycle for you is very important .
in fact , if you could only reduce the price from one thing to the poverty reduction , energy would be far more effective .
well , the energy cycle has fallen over time .
in fact , the progress society is based on energy progress .
coal evolution drove the industrial revolution , and even in the 20th century , there was a rapid case in the electric cycle , and that &apos;s why we have refrigerators , air conditioning , we can make modern materials and so many things .
so we &apos;re in a wonderful situation of electricity in the rich world .
and yet , this horrible destiny actually happens to someone anywhere on earth , about every two weeks , because every two weeks , an older person dies and takes the last silver of an old language to the grave .
in other aspects of life that are much more significant than buying objects , the same explosion of choice is true .
but if we reduce the price -- let &apos;s cut the price down -- let &apos;s hit a new barrier , and that barrier is associated with co2 .
co2 warms the planet , and the equation for co2 is actually quite clear .
they &apos;re summarizing the exhausted co2 that leads to temperature elevation , and that temperature elevation has some very negative implications . effects on the weather , and perhaps worse , the indirect consequence that the natural ecosystems can &apos;t adapt to such rapid changes , and therefore whole systems collapse .
now , the exact correlation between a co2 rise and the resulting temperature change , and where they &apos;re going , there are some ambiguity , but not very many .
and there &apos;s certainly ambiguity about how bad these consequences are going to be , but they &apos;re going to be extremely bad !
i asked the top scientists several times , &quot; do we really have to get down to zero ?
isn &apos;t half or a quarter ? &quot;
the answer is , until we get close to zero , the temperature will go up .
so it &apos;s a big challenge .
it &apos;s very different from saying we have a 3.5 foot truck that has to go under a 30-foot bridge , and you can kind of squeeze it underneath it .
health -- it &apos;s no longer the case in the united states that you go to the doctor and the doctor tells you what to do .
this has to go all the way down to zero .
well , we &apos;re emitting a lot of carbon dioxide every year , over 26 billion tons .
every american is about 20 tons . people from poor countries , less than one .
on average , it &apos;s about five tons for everyone on the planet .
and somehow we have to create changes that will reduce that to zero .
it &apos;s been up all the time .
only different economic changes have changed it at all , and we have to go from rapid increase to reducing and reducing to zero .
this equation has four factors . a little bit of multiplication . you have this thing on the left -- co2 -- that you want to get to zero , and that will depend on the number of people , on the service that every human being uses on average , the average energy for every service and the co2 that &apos;s emitted per unit of energy .
so let &apos;s look at each factor and think about how we get this to zero .
probably one of those numbers has to get very close to zero .
instead , they go to the doctor , and the doctor tells them , we could make a , or we could make b .
now this is basic algebra , but let &apos;s go through it .
first , we have the population .
today , 6.8 billion people live .
and it &apos;s heading towards nine billion . it &apos;s moving to nine billion .
if we &apos;re very successful with new vaccines , health care and reproduction medicine , we could probably reduce that by 10 to 15 percent , but right now we see a slope by 1.3 .
the second factor is the services that we use .
that includes all the food that we eat , clothing , television , heating .
these are very good things , and reducing poverty means making these services available to almost everyone on the planet .
it &apos;s great that that number goes up .
in the rich world , in the upper billion , we might be able to strike and use less , but on average , that number will increase every year , and therefore more than double , the number of services that are provided per person .
a has these benefits and risks .
here we see a very basic service . is there any light at home to read the homework ?
and these students don &apos;t have it , so they go out and read their school assignments under the street .
well , in efficiency , the e , the energy per service , there &apos;s finally good news .
we have something that doesn &apos;t go up .
because of various successes in the light sector , through other types of cars , through new methods in the housing , there are many services where some of the energy systems are reduced by 90 percent .
in other services , like making fertilizers , 105 : 05 : 56,000 -- &amp; amp ; 00 : 58,000 , or air traffic , or air traffic , the playground for improvement is much smaller .
in total , if we &apos;re optimistic , we might get a reduction by a factor of three , or maybe even by a factor of six .
but in the first three factors , we &apos;ve gone from 26 billion to perhaps the best 13 billion tons , and that &apos;s just not enough .
so let &apos;s look at the fourth factor -- and this is going to be a key factor -- that &apos;s the amount of co2 that is emitted per unit of energy .
the question is , can you get that to zero ?
b has these benefits and risks . what do you want to do ?
if you burn coal , no .
if you burn natural gas , no .
almost every manufacturing method for electricity today emitts co2 , except for renewables and nuclear energy .
so , what we need to do at a global level is to create a new system .
we need energy miracles .
now , if i use the term &quot; miracle , &quot; i don &apos;t mean the impossible .
the microprocessor is a miracle . the pc is a miracle .
the internet and service is a miracle .
people here have contributed to the development of many of these miracles .
usually there &apos;s no deadline that you need a miracle to have a particular date .
and they say , &quot; doctor , what should i do ? &quot;
you &apos;re usually just standing next to you , and some of them don &apos;t .
but in this case , we have to give full gas and get a miracle in a very short time .
now , i wondered , how can i really get this over ?
is there a natural illustration , a demonstration that sparks the idea of people here ?
i remembered last year when i brought mosquitos , and somehow people liked that .
the idea became really tangible for you , you know , that there are people who live with mosquitos .
i came up with this for energy .
i decided that leaving light bulbs would be here to the environment for this year .
so here are some natural fireflies .
i was told they didn &apos;t bite . in fact , they probably won &apos;t even leave the glass .
the doctor says a has these benefits and risks , and b has these benefits and risks .
well , there are all kinds of play solutions like this , but they don &apos;t do much .
we need solutions , either one or more , that have an incredible scale and unimaginable reliability , and even though there are many directions where people are looking for it , i really only see five that can afford these big demands .
i &apos;ve left out tides , geothermal , fusion and biofuels .
they may have a moderate contribution , and if they do better than i expect , that would be great , but my point here is that we have to work on all of those five , and we can &apos;t give up any of them because they are intimidating us , because they all have significant problems .
let &apos;s first look at the burning of fossil fuels , burning either coal or natural gas .
what you have to do there may seem simple , but it &apos;s not . you have to capture all the co2 that comes out of the chimney after the chimneys , put it in pressure , and then put it in some pressure and hope that it &apos;s there .
there are some pilot projects that can do this at 60 percent -- 80 percent level , but they &apos;re going to get it to 100 percent , and they &apos;re going to be very difficult to get an agreement on co2 storage , and that &apos;s a big challenge , but the biggest problem here is the payback issue .
who will make it safe ?
who can guarantee something that literally billions of times bigger than any kind of garbage you can imagine of nuclear and other things ?
that &apos;s a lot of volume .
what do you want to do ?
so this is a hard nut .
next , nuclear energy .
it also has three big problems . the cost , especially in highly regulated countries , and the question of security is that you really feel that nothing can go wrong despite the human participation that the fuel is not used for weapons .
and then what do you do with the waste ?
because even though it &apos;s not very big , there &apos;s a lot of concerns .
so three very difficult problems that might be soluble , and that &apos;s why you should work on them .
i &apos;ve summarized the last three of the five .
it &apos;s the renewables , as they &apos;re often called .
and they also have -- although it &apos;s great that they don &apos;t need fuel -- they have some disadvantages .
one is the energy density that these technologies create dramatically lower than the power plants .
and if you said , &quot; if you were me , doctor , what would you do ? &quot;
these are energy farms , you talk about many square kilometers , a thousand times more land than a normal power plant .
and also , these sources are interrupted .
the sun doesn &apos;t shine all day , it doesn &apos;t shine every day , and the wind doesn &apos;t always weep .
that &apos;s why , if you &apos;re dependent on these sources , you have to have a way to get the energy in times when it &apos;s not available .
so there are big prices here , and there are challenges in transmission , and if we say , for example , the energy source is outside the country , they don &apos;t just need the technology , they also have to deal with the risk of the energy coming from where else comes from .
and there &apos;s the storage problem .
and to show you the dimension , i &apos;ve looked at all kinds of batteries that are made , which for cars , computers , cell phones , flashlights , everything . and i &apos;ve compared that to the amount of electronic energy that the world uses , and i &apos;ve found that all the batteries that we &apos;re producing now could store less than 10 minutes of total energy .
so we need a big breakthrough here , something that will be a factor of 100 better than the approaches at the moment .
it &apos;s not impossible , but it &apos;s not that easy .
this is what happens when you try to get these interrupted sources over 20 percent -- 30 percent of the consumption .
the doctor says , &quot; but i &apos;m not you . &quot;
if you want to support for 100 percent , you need an incredible battery of wonder .
now , where are we going to go : what is the right approach ?
a manhattan project ? how do we get there ?
what we need is a lot of companies working on it . hundreds .
in each of these five areas , we need at least 100 people .
in many , you &apos;ll say , they &apos;re crazy ! that &apos;s good .
i think there are a lot of people here at the ted group who are already engaged in this .
bill gross has several companies , including one called esolar , that has great solar thermal technologies .
vinod khosla investes in dozens of companies doing great things and having interesting opportunities , and i try to support that .
nathan myhrvold and i finance a company that , perhaps surprisingly , tracks the nuclear approach .
and i know some of you say , &quot; isn &apos;t it better ? &quot; the world wouldn &apos;t be a better place if we all talk one language ? &quot; and i say , &quot; well , let this language be yoruba . let it be cantonesian .
the result is -- we call it &quot; patient autonomy . &quot; it sounds like a good thing , but in reality , a shift in the burden of responsibility for making decisions from someone who knows something -- namely , the doctor -- is someone who knows nothing , and is most likely to be sick , and therefore not in the best constitution is to make a decision -- namely , the patient .
there are some innovations in the nuclear area ; modular , liquid .
the development has stopped in this industry a while ago , so it &apos;s not a big surprise that some good concepts are around .
the terrapower concept means that instead of a part of the uranium , the one percent , the u235 , we decided to burn the 99 percent , the u238 .
this is a pretty crazy idea .
but in fact , they &apos;d been thinking about it for a long time , but you could never reasonably simulate whether it was going to work , but since there &apos;s modern supercomputers , you can simulate it and see that , yes , with the right materializing approach , it looks like it &apos;s going to work .
and because you burn that 99 percent , the cost profile is much better .
in fact , you burn the waste , and you can even use the waste of today &apos;s reactors as a fuel fuel .
instead of breaking your head , you just burn it . a great thing .
the uranium is used gradually , a little bit like a candle .
you can see that it &apos;s a kind of column , often called the &quot; walking wave of reactor . &quot;
there &apos;s an enormous marketing for prescription drugs for people like you and me , which , if you think about it , makes no sense at all , because we don &apos;t buy them .
that really solves the fuel problem .
here &apos;s a picture of a place in kentucky .
this is the waste , the 99 percent . you &apos;ve taken out the part that &apos;s burned today , so it &apos;s called abuse uranium .
that &apos;s what drives the u.s. for hundreds of years .
and if you make ocean water cheap and easy , you get enough fuel for the rest of the planet &apos;s life .
you know , there are a lot of challenges , but it &apos;s an example of a lot of hundreds of concepts that we need to get forward .
let &apos;s think about how we should measure our success .
what should our testimony look like ?
now , let &apos;s go to the goal that we have to reach , and then we talk about the intermediate step .
many people talk about an 80 percent reduction by 2050 .
why do they advertise around us if we can &apos;t buy ?
it &apos;s really important that we get there .
the rest of the 20 percent will be produced in poor countries , and still some agriculture , and hopefully wal-threatening and cement will be clean until then .
so , in order to reach that 80 percent , the developed world , including countries like china , has to completely reframe their electricity generation .
the other note is whether we use zero-emission technology , whether it &apos;s used in all developed countries , and we &apos;re on the way to get it to the rest .
that &apos;s terribly important .
this becomes a key element of this testimony .
if we go back from there , what would that look like in 2020 ?
it should contain the two elements again .
we should use the efficiency measures to get reductions , the less we emitt , the less the carbon sum is going to be and the temperature is going to be .
but in fact , this note for the things that we do that don &apos;t completely lead to the big reductions , is just the same , or even less important , as the others , which is the speed of innovation for these breakthroughs .
the answer is , you expect us to call the doctor the next morning and ask for a change in prescription .
we have to track these breakthroughs with full gas , and we can measure that in corporate numbers , in pilot projects and regulation changes .
there are many great books on this topic .
the al gore book &quot; we have the choice &quot; and david mckays &apos;s &quot; sustainable energy without the hot air . &quot;
they really go through it and create a framework where this can be discussed in a broad way , because we need support from all sides .
there are some things that need to come together .
that &apos;s a wish .
a very concrete wish that we invent this technology .
if you just give me a wish for the next 50 years , i could choose the president , a vaccine , and i love that , or i could choose that wish , which is , halfway through the energy cycle without co2 , i would take that wish .
this has the biggest impact .
if we don &apos;t get that wish , the dig between the long term and the short-term thinking of people will be terrible between the united states and china , between the poor and the rich , and almost all of the lives of that two billion will be much worse .
something as profound as our identity is now a question of how this slide is supposed to show .
so what do we have to do ?
what are i appealing for ?
we need to be engaged in more research funds .
when countries meet in places like coppenhagen , they shouldn &apos;t just talk about co2 .
you should discuss this innovation strategy , and you would be shocked by the ridiculously low money spent on these innovative approaches .
we need market taxes , co2 taxes , cap &amp; amp ; trade , something that creates a price signal .
we have to spread the message .
we need to have dialogue more rational and more complete and also the things that are done by the government .
it &apos;s an important wish , but i think we can fulfill it .
thank you .
we don &apos;t inherit identity , we invent it .
thank you .
thank you . thank you .
thank you very much . just to understand terrapower a little bit better -- first of all , can you give us an idea of the scale of this investment ?
bill gates : to do the simulation on a supercomputer , to get all the big scientists what we &apos;ve done , we only need a few 10 million . and even if we &apos;ve tested our materials in a russian reactor to make sure it works reasonably , you &apos;re only in the 1000s .
the hard step is to build the first reactor , to find another billion , the regularia and the place that actually builds the first of them .
once the first one is done , if it &apos;s like promising , it &apos;s all clear , because the economy , the energy density , is as different from nuclear energy as we know it .
in order to understand this , this means deep into the ground , almost like a vertical column of nuclear fuel , this consumed uranium , and then the process starts to go up and work down ?
bg : right . now you have to refill the reactor , so there are lots of people and lots of controls that can go wrong , this thing where you open it up and bring things in -- or out . that &apos;s not good !
but if you have very cheap fuel , you can fill it up for 60 years -- think of a column -- that buried it without all the complexity .
and it &apos;s sitting there , and it &apos;s burning for 60 years , and then it &apos;s done .
and we &apos;re as often reinventing ourselves as we want .
a nuclear reactor , which provides a solution to the waste itself .
bg : yeah . well , what happens to the garbage : you can let it sit -- there &apos;s much less garbage with this method -- then you take it and you put it in the next reactor and you keep burning it .
and we start by taking the waste that already exists , which is in these refrigerators or dryards in the reactors . this is our starting fuel .
so what was a problem for these reactors is what we put in our filling , and it dramatically reduces the waste volume during this process .
but while they &apos;ve talked to different people in the world about these possibilities .
where is the biggest interest in really doing this ?
bg : well , we haven &apos;t found ourselves in a place yet , and there &apos;s a lot of interesting rules of revelation for everything that &apos;s called &quot; nuclear &quot; -- there &apos;s a lot of interest , and the people of the company were in russia , india , china -- i was here and i met the energy minister and i talked about how this fits to the energy agenda .
i &apos;m optimistic . you know , the french and japanese have done something along the way .
this is a variant of one thing that was made .
this is an important step forward , but it &apos;s like a faster reactor , and some countries have built this , so everyone who has done a fast reactor is a candidate for our first .
that means that every day , if you wake up in the morning , you have to decide what kind of person you want to be .
in your mind , time-frame and probability of really creating something like this ?
bg : well , we need one of these scalable , over-generating things that are very cheap , we have 20 years to invent and then 20 years to use .
this is sort of the deadline that showed us the environmental models that we have to hold .
and , you know , terrapower , if everything goes well , and that &apos;s a big wish , could keep that easy .
and luckily , there are dozens of companies today , and we need hundreds that , in the same way , if their approaches work , can be promoted for their pilots .
and it would be best if it could do multiple things , because then you could use a mixture .
anyway , we need a solution .
the big breakthroughs possible , is this the biggest thing you know ?
bg : a breakthrough of energy is the most important .
it would have been without the environmental requirement , but it makes it much more important .
in terms of marriage and family , there was a time when the standard assumption was that almost everybody had one and that they got married as fast as they could , and then as quickly as they could , children got as they could .
in the nuclear sector , there are other innovative companies .
you know , we don &apos;t know their work as well as this , but there &apos;s the modular method , which is a different approach .
there &apos;s a liquid reactor type that seems a little bit difficult , but maybe they say that about us .
and so there are different things , but the nice thing about this is that a uranium molecule has a million times as much energy as a , say , a coal molecule , and therefore , if you can deal with the problems , and they &apos;re mostly the radiation , the footprint and the cost , it plays the potential , so the impact on the land and other things , almost in your own league .
if that doesn &apos;t work , then what ?
do we have to introduce emergency measures to try to keep the earth stable ?
bg : when you get into this situation , it &apos;s as if you &apos;ve eaten too much , and you &apos;re about to get in front of a heart attack . what do you do ? you might need a heart surgery or something .
there &apos;s a research line called geoengineering , which is about various techniques to delay global warming , so that we could get 20 or 30 years longer to run together .
this is just an insurance method .
you hope we don &apos;t need that .
the only real choice was &quot; who , &quot; not when , and not what they did after that .
some people say you shouldn &apos;t work at all on insurance , because that might make you lazy , so you keep eating , because you know you &apos;re going to save your heart surgery .
i don &apos;t know if that &apos;s smart , if you look at the importance of this problem , but there &apos;s now a discourse in geoengineering about whether you should have it , if things come faster , or this innovation takes longer than we expect .
climakeptics : do you have one or two sentences for those to maybe convince you ?
bg : well , unfortunately , the skeptics live in very different camps .
those who make scientific arguments are very little .
do you say that there are negative effects that have to do with the clouds that move things ?
there are very , very few things that you can even say , there &apos;s a chance in a million .
the main problem here is kind of like aids .
you make the mistake now , and you pay a lot later .
and that &apos;s why the idea , now , if you have all kinds of urgent problems of investing in something that you only have later -- and you get the investment not so clear . in fact , the ipcc report is not necessarily the worst scenario , and there are people in the rich world looking at ipcc and saying , okay , that &apos;s not a big drama .
let them be galaxy . &quot;
today , everything is easy to have .
the fact is that this uncertainty should make us worried .
but my dream here is that , if you can make it economic , and at the same time you eliminate co2 , then the skeptics say , &quot; okay , i &apos;m not interested in it not emitting co2 , i almost wish it did , but i &apos;m going to accept it because it &apos;s cheaper than the previous method . &quot;
and that would be your answer to the villages , lomborg argument , that if you use all this time and energy to solve the co2 problem , all the other targets suffer , the poverty reduction , the precipitation of malaria , and so on , there &apos;s a stupid waste of resources to invest money on it , while there &apos;s better things we can do .
bg : well , the actual spending on research -- let &apos;s say the u.s. should spend 10 billion a year more than they do today -- that &apos;s not that dramatic .
that &apos;s what other things shouldn &apos;t suffer .
you get too big money , and here you can disagree with people who don &apos;t have anything that &apos;s economic , and you &apos;re trying to finance that . for me , most waste is happening .
unless you &apos;re very short before a breakthrough , and you &apos;re just funding the learning curve , and i think we should try to do more things that have the potential to be much cheaper .
if the debris you get is a very high energy cycle , then only the rich can keep up .
i mean , each of us here could spend five times as much on our energy without changing our lifestyle .
but for the bottom two billion , it &apos;s a disaster .
i teach wonderful intelligent students , and i give them 20 percent less work than i used to do .
and even lomborg thinks about it .
his new flap is now , &quot; why is research not going to talk ? &quot;
he &apos;s still , because of his earlier stories , associated with the skeptic camp , but he understood that this is a very lonely group , and so now he &apos;s bringing the research argument .
and this is a thought that i think is appropriate .
the research , it &apos;s just crazy how little it &apos;s supported .
bill , i think i &apos;m talking for almost all people here when i say , i really hope that your wish will come true . thank you very much .
bg : thank you .
a few years ago , here at ted , peter skillman presented a design competition called &quot; the marshmallow challenge . &quot;
the idea is pretty simple . four teams have to build the largest free structure with 20 spaghetti , about a meter tape , about a thread and a marshmallow .
the marshmallow has to be on top .
and that &apos;s not because they &apos;re less smart , not because they &apos;re less careful .
and even though it seems really easy , it &apos;s actually really hard because it urges people to work together very quickly .
and so i thought this was an interesting idea , and i turned it into a design workshop .
it was a huge success .
since then , i &apos;ve done about 70 workshops worldwide , with students and developers and architects , even with ctos of fortune 50-company , and there &apos;s something about this task that allows deep insights into the nature of collaboration , and i want to share some of them with you .
most people usually start to orient themselves to the task .
they &apos;re talking about it , they &apos;re thinking about what it &apos;s going to look like , they &apos;re running around power .
then you invest a little bit of time in planning and organization , and you sketch and you put spaghetti .
they invest a lot of their time in the assembly of ever-growing structures .
and finally , just before you don &apos;t have time , somebody takes the marshmallow , and they put it on the top , step back and &quot; ta-da ! &quot; they admire their work .
but then , almost always , what happens is that the ta-da becomes a uh-oh , because the weight of the marshmallow causes the whole thing to bend and collapse .
it &apos;s because they &apos;re busy with other things , they ask themselves , &quot; should i marry or not ? should i marry now ?
there are a number of people who have much more uh-oh moments than others , and among the worst are fresh bwl graduates .
they lie , they cheat , they &apos;re confused and they produce really drought shapes .
and of course , there are teams that have much more &quot; ta-da , &quot; and among the best are fresh graduates in kindergarten .
and that &apos;s quite amazing .
as peter told us , they not only produce the highest towers , but also the most interesting structures of all .
what you might ask is , how is that ? why ? what about those ?
and peter says , &quot; none of the kids spend time being the head of the spaghetti gmbh . &quot;
they &apos;re not investing in power fights .
but there &apos;s another reason .
and that is that bwl students were trained to find the right plan , ok .
should i marry later ? should i have children , or should i have a career ? &quot;
and then realizing it .
what happens when you put the marshmallow on the top , you don &apos;t have time , and what happens ?
it &apos;s a crisis .
sounds familiar , what ?
what kindergarten kids do differently is they start with the marshmallow and build prototypes , successful prototypes , always with the marshmallow at the top , so that they have multiple times the ability to repair bold prototypes .
constructors recognize this kind of collaboration as the core of an iterative process .
and with every attempt , the kids get immediate feedback about what works and what doesn &apos;t .
so the performance of working with prototypes is essential -- but let &apos;s see how different teams are doing .
the average for most people is about 50 inches , bwl students get half of them , lawyers are a little bit more , but not much , kindergarten children are better than the adults .
who is the most successful ?
these are all engaging questions .
architects and engineers , fortunately .
one meter is the highest thing i &apos;ve seen .
and why ? because they understand triangles and self-enhancing geometric patterns are the key to building stable structures .
ceos are a little bit above average . but this is where it gets interesting .
if you put an executive administrator on the team , they get significantly better .
it &apos;s incredible . you look around and you see , &quot; this team will win . &quot;
you can predict that . why does that happen ?
because they have special skills of processing .
they run the process , they understand it .
and that team that &apos;s regulating and paying attention to the work is significantly improving the performance of the team .
and you &apos;re going to answer these questions regardless of whether that means doing all the tasks that i &apos;m telling you and not getting a good note in my course .
specialized skills and processing skills and their combination lead to success .
if you have 10 teams that are typical , you get about six that have stable structures .
now , i tried something interesting .
and i thought , let &apos;s bring the poker use right now .
so i offered a $ 10,000 price software for the winners .
what do you think happened to these design students ?
what was the result ?
this is what happened . not a team had a stable structure .
if anyone had built a two-inch construction , they would have carried the price home .
so isn &apos;t it interesting that high competitions have a strong effect ?
and in fact , you should do that . these are important questions to answer .
we repeated this exercise with the same students .
now , what do you think happened ?
now they understood the advantage of the prototyping .
so the same bad team became one of the best .
they produced the highest construction in the least time .
so there are profound lessons for us about the nature of drive and success .
you might ask : why would someone actually spend some time creating a marshmallow challenge ?
the reason is , i &apos;m helping create digital tools and processes to help create teams , cars , video games and visual effects .
and what the marshmallow challenge does is it helps them identify hidden assumptions .
because frankly , every project has its own marshmallow .
work -- we &apos;re blessed with how carl has pointed out , with the technology that allows us to work every minute of every place on the planet -- except for the randolph hotel .
the challenge is a shared experience , a shared language , or basic position , to build the right prototype .
and this is the value of that experience , that kind of simple exercise .
and those of you who are interested in it can visit marshmallowchallenge.com .
it &apos;s a blog where you see how to build the marshmallows .
there &apos;s a step-by-step manual there .
they find crazy examples from all over the world of people optimizing and refining the system .
there are world record as well .
and the basic lesson , i think , is that construction is actually a connected sport .
it demands that we all put our senses on the task , and that we use our thinking optimally , like our feelings and our actions , in the challenge that we face .
and sometimes a little prototype of this experience is to get us from a &quot; uh oh &quot; -- to a &quot; ta-da &quot; moment .
there &apos;s actually a corner that i &apos;m not going to tell you about that the wirelesslan works on .
and that can make a big difference .
thank you .
let &apos;s pretend we have a machine here .
a big machine , a cool , ted machine , and this is a time machine .
and everybody in this room has to go in .
and you can go to the past , you can go to the future ; you can &apos;t stay here and now .
and i wonder what you would choose , because i &apos;ve asked my friends this question a lot lately , and they all wanted to go to the past .
i don &apos;t know . they wanted to go back to time before there were cars or twitter or &quot; america is looking for the superstar . &quot;
i don &apos;t know .
i believe that you &apos;re kind of drawn to nostalgia , to wonder .
and then suddenly you would realize what it would be like if you couldn &apos;t speak your own language .
i &apos;m not going to tell you because i want to use it .
and i understand that .
i &apos;m not part of this group , i have to say .
i don &apos;t want to go into the past , and that &apos;s not because i &apos;m an adventurer .
it &apos;s because the possibilities on the planet are not going back , they &apos;re going forward .
so i want to go into this machine , and i want to go into the future .
this is the greatest time that has ever been on this planet , no matter what scale you &apos;re building : health , wealth , mobility , opportunities , declining disease rates .
there &apos;s never been a time like this before .
my great-grandparents died when they were 60 .
my grandparents urged this number to 70 .
my parents are the 80 on the heel .
so what it means is that this incredible freedom of choice we have to make decisions about work , over and over again , whether we should work or not work .
so there should be a nine at the beginning of my death number .
but it &apos;s not even about people like us , because this is a bigger thing than that .
a child born in new delhi today might expect to live as long as the richest man in the world 100 years ago .
think about it . that &apos;s an incredible fact .
and why is that ?
smallpox . smallpox killed billions of people on the planet .
they reformed the demographics of the earth in a way that no war has ever done .
they &apos;re gone . they &apos;re gone .
we defeated them . phew .
in the rich world , there are diseases that millions of us have yet threatened before one generation .
we can watch our kids play football , and we have our cell phone on one hip , and our blackberry on other hips , and our laptop probably on our lap .
diphoma , roasting , child paralysis ...
does anybody know what that is ?
vaccines , modern medicine , our ability to feed billions of people , these are successes in the scientific method .
and in my view , the scientific method to try things out is to see if it works , if it doesn &apos;t , it changes , one of the greatest achievements of humanity .
so that &apos;s the good news .
unfortunately , that &apos;s all the good news , because there are some other problems , and they &apos;ve been mentioned a lot .
and one of them is that , despite all of our achievements , a billion people in the world are hungry every day .
that number goes up , and it goes up very quickly , and that &apos;s embarrassing .
and not only that , we &apos;ve used our imagination to devastate this world .
drinking water , ancient land , rainforests , oil , gas : they &apos;re disappearing soon , and if we don &apos;t innovate from this chaos , we &apos;re also disappearing .
and even if you &apos;re all turned off , every minute that we watch our child in the mutilating of a football game , we &apos;re also wondering , &quot; should i take this call ?
so the question is : can we do that ? i think so .
i think it &apos;s clear that we can produce food that will feed billions of people without raping the land that they live on .
i think we can power this world that doesn &apos;t destroy it at the same time .
i really believe that , and no , that &apos;s not a wonder thinking .
but this keeps me awake at night -- one of the things that keeps me awake at night . we &apos;ve never needed scientific progress as much as we do now , never .
and we &apos;ve never been able to use it reasonably , as we can today .
we &apos;re at the threshold of astonishing , amazing events in many areas , and yet i really think that we have to go back hundreds , 300 years before the enlightenment to find a time when we &apos;ve been fighting progress , where we &apos;ve been pushing over these things more heavily than now .
people wrap themselves in their beliefs , and it &apos;s so tight that you can &apos;t free them .
not even the truth will liberate you .
and listen , everybody has a right to their opinion , even a right to progress .
should i respond to this email ? should i write this letter ? &quot;
but you know what they &apos;re not right about ?
they don &apos;t have a right to their own facts . &apos; sorry , they don &apos;t .
and it took me a while to figure that out .
about a decade ago , i wrote an article about vaccinations for &quot; the new yorker , &quot; a little article .
and i was amazed to bump into resistance , in resistance to what is ultimately the most effective thing in health care in the history of humanity .
i didn &apos;t know what to do , so i just did what i always do , i wrote an article , and i went on .
and soon after that , i wrote an article about genetically engineered food .
the same thing , just bigger .
people were playing crazy .
so i also wrote an article about this , and i couldn &apos;t understand why people thought that was &quot; frankenfood , &quot; why they thought that molecules were going to move around in a particular way , rather than a random way , a chance of translating into the field of nature .
and even though the answer to the question &quot; no , &quot; it &apos;s certainly going to be a very different experience of your child &apos;s football game than it would have been .
but you know , i do what i do . i wrote the article , i kept on going .
i mean , i &apos;m a journalist .
we type , we pass in , we eat , that &apos;s okay .
but i was worried about these articles , and i couldn &apos;t figure out why , and i finally figured it out .
and that &apos;s because these fanatics who made me crazy , were not fanatics at all .
these were thoughtful people , educated people , decent people .
they were just like the people in this room .
and that got me so confused .
but then i thought , you know what , let &apos;s face it .
we got to a point where we don &apos;t have the same relationship to progress as we used to .
everywhere we look , big things and small things , material things and lifestyle , life is a question of choice .
we &apos;re talking about twin .
we &apos;re talking about it ironically , with little leaders about it , &quot; progress . &quot;
okay , there are reasons for that , and i think we know what those are reasons .
we have lost trust in institutions , in authority , and sometimes in science , and there &apos;s no reason why it shouldn &apos;t be .
you can just name a few , and people will understand .
chernobyl , bhopal , the challengers , vioxx , weapons of mass destruction , the u.s. presidential election in 2000 .
i mean , you know , you can choose your own list .
there are questions and problems with the people we thought they were always right , so be skeptical .
ask questions , ask for evidence , ask for evidence .
don &apos;t take anything for granted .
and the world that we lived in looked like this .
but here &apos;s the thing : if you have to get evidence , you have to take that evidence , and we &apos;re not good at it .
and i can say that for the reason that we are now living in an epidemic of fear , as i &apos;ve never seen before , and hopefully never seen again .
about 12 years ago , a story was published , a horrible story that brought the autism epidemic to the massacre , mumps , and roast vaccine .
very scary .
a lot of studies were conducted to see if that was true .
a lot of studies should be done ; that &apos;s a serious issue .
the data came in .
the data came in from the united states , from england , from sweden , from canada , and they were all the same , no correlation , no connection , no connection , no connection .
it doesn &apos;t matter . it doesn &apos;t matter because we believe in anecdotes , we believe what we see , what we believe , what makes us feel real .
we don &apos;t believe in a bunch of documents from a government that gives us data , and i understand that , i think we all do .
so i want to say , there were some choices , but not everything was a question of choice .
but you know what ?
the result was catastrophic .
catastrophic , because of this fact : the united states is one of the only countries in the world where the vaccinations for masses are declining .
this is scandalous , and we should be ashamed .
it &apos;s terrible .
what happened was that we could do that .
well , i understand that . i do .
because anybody here has masses ?
has a single person in the audience ever seen anyone die of masses ?
it doesn &apos;t happen very often .
and the world that we live in now looks like this .
it doesn &apos;t happen at all in this country , but 160,000 times in the world last year .
that &apos;s a lot of deaths from masses , 20 an hour .
but because that hasn &apos;t happened here , we can displace it , and people like jenny mccarthy can walk around and preach messages of fear and illiteracy of platforms like oprah and larry king live .
and they can do that because they don &apos;t connect cause and correlation .
they don &apos;t understand that these things seem the same , but almost never the same .
and this is something that we need to learn , and it &apos;s very fast .
this guy was a hero , jonas salk .
he liberated us from one of the worst spirits in humanity .
no fear , no source , child paralysis , puff , disappeared .
the guy in the middle is not so much .
so today , i want to take you on a journey through the ethnosphere , a short journey through the ethnosphere , to try and understand what &apos;s actually been lost .
and the question is , is that good news or bad news ?
it &apos;s called paul offit .
he &apos;s just developed a rotavirus vaccine with a few other people .
it can save the lives of 400- , 500,000 children a year in the developing world .
pretty good , right ?
well , that &apos;s good , besides the fact that paul &apos;s walking around talking about vaccines and saying how valuable they are , and people should just stop jamming .
and he actually says that .
so paul is a terrorist .
if paul talks in a public audience , he can &apos;t say without armed guards .
he gets calls at home because people like to tell him that they know where his kids go to school .
and why ? because paul made a vaccine .
the answer is yes .
i don &apos;t need to say that , but vaccines are essential .
if you take them away , the diseases come back , horrible diseases , and that &apos;s what &apos;s happening .
we now have masses in this country .
and that gets worse , and pretty soon kids will die again , because that &apos;s just one question of numbers .
and they &apos;re not just going to die of masses .
what about child paralysis ? let &apos;s take that . why not ?
a commilitarian of mine wrote me a few weeks ago , and she said , &quot; i &apos;m a little bit too shrimp . &quot;
no one has ever said that before .
she wouldn &apos;t vaccinate her child against child paralysis . no way .
fine .
we all know what &apos;s good about it , so i &apos;m going to get what &apos;s bad about it .
why ? because we don &apos;t have children &apos;s paralysis . and you know what ?
we didn &apos;t have child paralysis in this country yesterday .
today , i don &apos;t know , maybe somebody got on an airplane this morning in lagos and flies to los angeles , right now he &apos;s over ohio .
and in a few hours , he ends up renting a car , and he comes to long beach , and he &apos;s going to visit one of these fantastic ted dinner tonight .
and he doesn &apos;t know that he &apos;s infected with a paralyzing disease , and we don &apos;t know that either , because that &apos;s how the world works .
this is the planet we live on . don &apos;t pretend it &apos;s not .
we love to wrap ourselves in lies . we love that .
did you all take your vitamins this morning ?
echinacea , a little antioxidantium that helps you on the jumps .
i know you &apos;ve done this because half of americans do this every day .
all of these choices have two effects , two negative effects on people .
they take this stuff , and they take alternative cure , and it doesn &apos;t matter how often we find that they &apos;re useless .
the data is always showing this .
they evaporate their urine . they almost never do .
that &apos;s okay , you want to pay 28 billion dollars for dark urine .
i totally agree with you .
dark urine . dark .
why do we do that ? why do we do that ?
well , i think i understand -- we hate the pharmaceutical industry .
we hate too much government . we have no trust in the system .
and we shouldn &apos;t . our healthcare system is mies .
one effect , paradoxically , is that it paralyzes rather than free .
it &apos;s cruel to millions of people .
it &apos;s absolutely astonishing cold and soul to ourselves who can afford to .
so we &apos;re going away from that , and where are we going ?
we &apos;re going into the arms of the placebo industry .
that &apos;s great . i love the placebo industry .
but , you know , this is really a serious issue , because this stuff is crap , and we spend billions of dollars on it .
and i have all kinds of little props here .
none of it -- gingko , fraud , echinacea , fraud , acai , i don &apos;t even know what that is , but we spend billions of dollars on it , it &apos;s fraud .
and you know what ? when i say that , people scream at me and say , &quot; what cares about you ? let people do what you want .
that &apos;s how you feel . &quot;
with so many options that you can choose , it &apos;s very difficult for people to even decide .
and you know what ? they &apos;re wrong .
because i don &apos;t care if it &apos;s the minister of health who says , &quot; hmm , i &apos;m not going to take the evidence of my experts on mammography , &quot; or some cancer-quacec salber who wants to treat his patients with caffe-unks .
if you go on this path , where belief and magic replace evidence and science , you get to a place where you don &apos;t want to be .
they get to thabo mbeki in south africa .
he killed 400,000 of his people because he insisted that red beef , bone and lemon oil are much more effective than antiretroviral drugs that we know can break the course of aids .
hundreds of thousands of unnecessary deaths in a country that &apos;s worse than any other disease .
please don &apos;t tell me that these things don &apos;t have consequences .
they have them . they always have them .
now , the most brainless epidemic that we &apos;re in right now is this absurd battle between the proponent genetically modified food and the bio-elite .
this is an idiotic debate . it has to stop .
i &apos;m going to give you another dramatic example of this , a study of investing in volunteer age .
it &apos;s a debate about words , about metaphors .
this is ideology , not science .
everything we eat , every rice corn , every branch of petersilie , every rose corn , was changed by the people .
you know , there were no mandarins in paradise .
there were no cantaloupe-melons .
there were no christmas trees . we did all this .
we &apos;ve done it in the last 11,000 years .
and some of it worked and some of it didn &apos;t work .
we got rid of what didn &apos;t work .
now we can make it more specific , and of course there are risks , but we can do something like vitamin a in rice , and the stuff can help millions of people extend their lives .
a colleague of mine had access to investment acts of vanguard , the giant fund society of about a million employees and about 2,000 different jobs .
don &apos;t you want to do that ?
i have to say , i don &apos;t understand that .
we reject genetically engineered food .
why do we do that ?
now , what i hear all the time is , too many chemicals , pesticides , hormones , monoculture , we don &apos;t want huge fields with one thing , that &apos;s wrong .
we don &apos;t want companies to patent lives .
we don &apos;t want companies to have seeds .
and you know what my answer to all this is ?
yes , they &apos;re right . let &apos;s fix that .
it &apos;s true , we have a huge food problem , but that &apos;s not science .
and what she found was a 10 investment fund that the employer offered , took the participation by two percent .
that has nothing to do with science .
it &apos;s right , morality , patent stuff .
they know that science is not a company .
it &apos;s not a country .
it &apos;s not even an idea ; it &apos;s a process .
it &apos;s a process , and sometimes it doesn &apos;t work and sometimes it doesn &apos;t , but the idea that we shouldn &apos;t allow science to do its work , because we &apos;re afraid to be a real dead end , and it keeps millions of people from blowing up .
you know , in the next 50 years , we &apos;re going to have to grow 70 percent more food than currently . 70 percent .
this investment in africa in the last 30 years .
shame . shame .
you need that , and we don &apos;t give it to you .
they &apos;re offering 50 investment funds -- 10 percent less employees are part than if they &apos;re just offering five . why ?
and why ? genetically engineered food .
we don &apos;t want to encourage people to eat this rotten stuff , like manioc .
maniok is something that half a billion people eat .
it &apos;s kind of like a potato .
it &apos;s just a bunch of calories . it &apos;s mies .
it has no nutrients , it has no protein , and scientists are building all that in there .
and then people could eat this , and they wouldn &apos;t get blind .
you wouldn &apos;t starve , and you know what ?
that would be nice . it wouldn &apos;t be chez panisse , but it would be beautiful .
and all i can say about this is , why do we fight this ?
we &apos;re all born . we &apos;re bringing children to the world .
now there are some of us who kind of forget that when i say , &quot; different possibilities of being , &quot; really mean different possibilities of being .
because it &apos;s 50 investment funds that are opposed to choice , it &apos;s so hard to decide which one to choose to put it on tomorrow .
i mean , let &apos;s ask ourselves , why are we fighting this ?
because we don &apos;t want to push genes around ?
it &apos;s not about pushing genes around . it &apos;s not about chemicals .
it &apos;s not about our ridiculous passion for hormones , our persistence for greater food , better food , unique food .
it &apos;s not about rice krispies , it &apos;s about keeping people alive , and it &apos;s going to be time to understand what that means .
because you know what ?
if we don &apos;t do that , if we keep on doing it like we &apos;ve been guilty of something that i think we don &apos;t want to be guilty of , high-tech colonialism .
there &apos;s no other description of what &apos;s going on here .
it &apos;s selfish , it &apos;s ugly , it &apos;s not worthy , and we really have to stop that .
so after this incredibly funny conversation , you might want to say , &quot; do you still want to go into this ridiculous time machine and into the future ? &quot;
and then tomorrow , and then tomorrow , and tomorrow , and tomorrow , and tomorrow , of course , never comes .
anyway . i certainly want that .
right now it &apos;s in the present , but we have an incredible opportunity .
we can put this time machine on everything we want .
we can move them where we want to move them , and we &apos;re going to move them where we want them .
we have to have these conversations , and we have to think , but when we go up into the time machine , and we &apos;re going to be happy to do that .
i know that we can , and as far as i &apos;m concerned , that &apos;s something that the world needs now .
thank you .
thank you .
i &apos;ve been interested in the placebo effect for a while , and it may seem strange that a magician is interested in it , unless you look at it the way i am , as &quot; a deception that becomes real when someone believes only hard enough . &quot;
in other words , sugar pills have shown a measurable effect in some studies , the placebo effect , and it &apos;s just because the person thinks what &apos;s going on with it , whether it &apos;s a pharmaceutical or a kind of -- in pain management , for example , if the patient believes only hard enough , there &apos;s a measurable effect in the body called the placebo effect .
understand that it &apos;s not just that people have to eat dog food when they go to retirement , because they don &apos;t have enough money to recover , it also means making decisions is so hard that they miss big investment officers from their employers .
a deception becomes something real because somebody perceives it that way .
now , in order to understand each other , i want to show you a very basic , simple magic trick .
and i &apos;m going to show you how it works . this is a trick that &apos;s been in every children since the 1950s at least .
i learned him from cub scout magic of the path finder in the 1970s .
i &apos;m going to do it for you and then explain it .
and then i &apos;ll explain why i explain it .
so , look what happens .
the knife you can study ; my hand you can study .
i &apos;m just going to keep the knife in my lap like this .
i &apos;m going to push my sleeve back .
by not participating , they &apos;re giving up to 5,000 u.s. dollars a year on the employer who would have been happy to reproduce their contribution .
and to make sure that nothing in my sleeve disappears or comes out of him , i &apos;m just going to put my wrist right here .
so you can see that there &apos;s nothing going on at any time , and as long as i push here , nothing can migrate or come out of my sleeve .
and the goal here is very simple .
i &apos;m going to open my hand , and hopefully , if everything goes well , the knife is held by my mere physical magnetism .
it &apos;s actually so hard in its place that i can shake it without the knife falling down .
nothing goes into my sleeve , or comes out , no trickling , and you can study everything .
ta-da !
now , this is a trick that i often teach little kids who are interested in magic , because you can learn a lot about deception when you look more closely , even though it &apos;s a very simple executive trick .
probably a lot of you in this room know this trick .
here &apos;s how it works .
paralysis is a consequence of too many choices .
i hold the knife in my hand .
i say that i include my wrist to make sure that nothing in my sleeve disappears or comes out , and that &apos;s a lie .
the reason i hold my wrist is because it &apos;s the real secret of illusion .
because the moment i turn my hand away from you , so you can see it from the back , this finger is moving , my index finger , just from where it was , into a position where it &apos;s so extended .
great trick ?
there &apos;s somebody in the back who didn &apos;t have a childhood .
so , it &apos;s here . right .
and if i turn around , the finger changes its position .
and now you could talk about why this is a deception , why you don &apos;t perceive that there are only three fingers down here : because the mind and the way it process information doesn &apos;t count them , one , two , three , but you see them as a group .
but that &apos;s really not what this is about , and then i open my hand .
and i think it makes the world look like this .
of course , it &apos;s held there , but not by the magnetism of my body , but by a trick , by my index finger , which is now there .
and when i close my hand , the same thing happens by turning back , is hidden by this movement that the finger is moving back .
i take this hand away . and here &apos;s the knife .
you can do this trick to your friends and neighbors . thank you .
now , what does this have to do with the placebo effect ?
a year ago or so , i read a study that really blew my mind .
i &apos;m not a doctor or a researcher , and that &apos;s why it was an amazing thing to me .
and what it turns out is that if you offer a placebo in the form of a white pill , in the form of an aspirin pill , it &apos;s just a round , white pill that has a certain measurable effect .
but if you change the shape in which you give the placebo , for example , into a smaller pill , and you color those blue and you put a letter on it , it &apos;s actually more effective .
and that , although none of those , any pharmaceutical -- they &apos;re just sugar pills .
you really want to make the decision right if it &apos;s forever , right ?
but a white pill is not as good as a blue pill .
what ? that really made me freak out .
but it turns out that that &apos;s not all that .
if you take capsules , they &apos;re even more effective than pills of every form .
a colored capsule that &apos;s on one end of yellow and the other red is better than a white capsule .
the dosage also plays a role .
a pill twice a day is not as good as three pills -- i can &apos;t remember the exact statistics now . i &apos;m sorry .
but the key thing is ...
... that the doses also matter .
and the shape plays a role .
they don &apos;t want to choose the wrong investment fund , or even the wrong salad address .
and if you want to have the ultimate placebo effect , you have to reach the needle .
right ? a syringe with an ineffective -- a few milliliters of an ineffective substance that you inject to a patient .
this creates a very strong picture in the head , which is much stronger than a white pill .
this graph is really -- i &apos;m going to show you another time we have a projector .
so the fact is that the white pill doesn &apos;t work as well as the blue pill that doesn &apos;t work as well as a capsule that doesn &apos;t work as the needle .
and none of it has any really pharmaceutical property , and it &apos;s just our belief in it that has a stronger impact in us .
i wanted to know if i could use this idea for a magic trick .
i take something that &apos;s obviously a deception , and i make it look real .
we know from that study that you have to reach to the needle when you &apos;re supposed to do it .
this is an eight-inch castle . it &apos;s very , very sharp . and i &apos;m going to sterilize it a little bit first .
so that &apos;s the one effect . the other effect is that even if we overcome the paralysis and make a decision , we end up less satisfied with the outcome of choice than if we had the opportunity to choose between less possibilities .
this is really my flesh . it &apos;s not damians &apos; special cultured meat .
this is my skin . this is not a special effect from hollywood .
now i &apos;m going to put this needle in my skin and push it through it , until it &apos;s going to stick back up on the other side .
if you &apos;re miserable -- if you &apos;re easily in favor of power -- i showed this to a couple of friends last night in the hotel room , and some people i didn &apos;t know , and a woman has become almost powerless .
so i propose , if you &apos;re going to get bad fast , look away for the next 30 seconds , or , you know what , i &apos;m going to do the first hot part in the back here .
you can see it in a moment , but you can see it away , if you want .
so , it goes like this , right where my flesh starts , at the bottom of my arm , i &apos;m just going to make a little one-hour .
i &apos;m really sorry . is that crazy ?
and now just a little bit through my skin and on the other side , out like this .
now we &apos;re actually in the same situation that we had in the knife trick .
and there are several reasons for this .
about it .
but now you can &apos;t count my fingers , right ?
so , i &apos;m going to show you . this is one , two , three , four , five .
well , yeah .
i know what people think when they see that .
they say , &quot; okay , it &apos;s not so stupid and it &apos;s going to penetrate itself , just to talk for a few minutes . &quot;
well , i &apos;m going to show you .
what does this look like ? pretty good .
yeah , i know .
and people in the back say , &quot; okay . i didn &apos;t really see that . &quot;
take , for example , this kid from barasana in the northwest of the amazon , the people of the anakonda , believe that they have mythologically come up with the milky flow from the east in the belly of sacred snakes .
one of them is , by choosing different salad ressings , if you buy one , and it &apos;s not perfect -- and what salt ressing is perfect ? it &apos;s easy to imagine that you could have made a different decision that would have been better . and what has happened is this image-driven alternative leads to you regret the decision , and that regret is negative to the satisfaction that you &apos;ve had from your decision that you &apos;ve made , even though it was a good choice .
the people in the side rooms are now coming in .
let me show you from near .
this is really my skin . this is not a special effect from hollywood .
this is my flesh , and i can turn this around .
sorry . when you get bad , look away , don &apos;t look at it .
the people in the back , or the ones who see this later on in video , will say , &quot; well , this looks pretty impressive , but if it were real , it would be -- you see , there &apos;s a hole , and there , if it really was real , it would bleed . &quot;
okay , let me squeeze some blood for you .
yeah , here it is .
i would normally take out the needle now .
i would clean my arm and show you that there are no wounds .
the more possibilities there are , the easier it is to regret at all , that &apos;s disappointing to the choice they make .
but i think in this frame here , and with the intention of making something real , i &apos;m just going to leave the needle in there and go off the stage .
we &apos;re going to meet a few more times in the next few days .
i hope you &apos;ll look forward to that . thank you very much .
everybody is talking about happiness today .
i &apos;ve let some people count the number of books that have been published with happiness in the title of the last five years , and they gave up about 40 , and there was a lot more .
there &apos;s a huge wave of interest in happiness among researchers .
there &apos;s a lot of luck coaching .
everybody would like to make people happier .
but despite all this tide of work , there are several cognitive traps that make it almost impossible to think clearly about happiness .
and my talk today is mostly going to be about these cognitive traps .
second , what economists call the oppertune cost .
that &apos;s true of layman thinking about their own happiness , and it &apos;s true for scientists who think about happiness , because it turns out we &apos;re just as mess as everyone else .
the first of these traps is a reluctant to admit complexity .
it turns out that the word happiness is just not a useful word anymore , because we apply it to too many different things .
i think there &apos;s a certain meaning that we could confine it to , but by and large , that &apos;s something that we have to give up , and we &apos;re going to have to take the complicated view of what well-being is .
the second trap is a confusion of experience and memory : basically , it &apos;s between being happy in its life and being happy about his life or being happy with his life .
and these are two very different concepts , and they &apos;re both together in the idea of happiness .
and the third is the focus illusion , and that &apos;s the unfortunate fact that we can &apos;t think about a circumstance that affects well-being without distorting its meaning .
i mean , this is a real cognitive trap .
there &apos;s just no way to get it right .
now , i &apos;d like to start with an example of someone who had a question and answer session after one of my lectures reporting a story . &#91; unclear &#93; he said he had heard a symphony , and it was absolutely glorious music , and at the end of the recording there was a terrible circular sound .
dan gilbert made a big point this morning by telling how much the way we evaluate things depends on what we compare it .
and then he added , really , quite emotionally , this has ruined the whole experience .
but it didn &apos;t have that .
what it had ruined was the memories of the experience .
he had the experience .
he had 20 minutes of glorious music .
they didn &apos;t count because he was in love with a memory ; the memory was ruined , and the memory was all he had to keep .
what this really tells us is that we could think about ourselves and other people in the sense of two types of self .
there &apos;s a surviving self that lives in the present and knows the present is capable of experiencing the past , but it &apos;s basically just the present .
it &apos;s the surviving self that the doctor is calling -- you know , when the doctor says , &quot; does it hurt now when i &apos;m going to touch you here ? &quot;
and then there &apos;s a memorable self , and the memory itself is the one that counts and receives the story of our lives , and it &apos;s the one that the doctor addresses by asking the question , &quot; how did you feel lately ? &quot;
well , if there are lots of alternatives to think about , it &apos;s just to imagine attractive properties of alternatives that they exclude , that makes them less satisfied with the alternatives that they &apos;ve chosen .
or &quot; what was your journey to albania ? &quot; or something like that .
these are two very different units , the living self and the remembering self , and the two to confuse is part of the passenger of happiness .
now , the memory itself is a storyteller .
and this really starts with a fundamental reaction to our memories -- it starts immediately .
we don &apos;t just tell stories when we make stories .
our memory tells us stories , which means what we can keep from our experience is a story .
and let &apos;s start with an example .
there &apos;s an old study .
these are real patients who are undergoing a painful procedure .
i &apos;m not going to go into the details . she &apos;s not painful anymore , but she was painful when this study was done in the 1990s .
here &apos;s an example . for those of you who are not new yorkers , i apologize .
they were asked to report their pain every 60 seconds .
and here are two patients . these are their records .
and they &apos;re asked , &quot; who suffered more ? &quot;
and that &apos;s a very simple question .
patient b clearly suffered more . his gut reflection was longer , and every minute of pain the patient a had patient b , and more .
but now there &apos;s another question : &quot; how much did these patients think they were suffering ? &quot;
and here &apos;s a surprise .
and the surprise is that patient a had a much worse memory of the gut reflection than patient b .
the stories of the gut reflections were different , and because a very critical part of the story is how it ends .
and none of these stories are very building or great -- but one of them is that clear ...
but here &apos;s what you should have thought .
but one of them is much worse than the other .
and the one that was worse was where the pain was at the end of its peak . it &apos;s a bad story .
how do we know that ?
because we asked these people about their gut reflection , and also much later , &quot; how bad was the whole thing overall ? &quot;
and she was much worse for a than b in memory .
now , this is a direct conflict between the living self and the remembering self .
clearly , from a living self &apos;s point of view , b had a worse time .
now , what you could do with patient a , and we actually did clinical experiments , and it &apos;s been done , and it works , you could actually extend patient a &apos;s gut reflection by just letting the tube in there without shaking too much on it .
that &apos;s going to cause the patient to suffer , but only a little bit less than before .
and if you do that for a few minutes , you &apos;ve been making sure that the living self is worse off of patient a , and you &apos;ve been making sure that the memory itself of patient a is much better off , because now you &apos;ve given patient a a a a a better story about your experience .
here &apos;s a couple on the hamptons .
what is a story about ?
and that &apos;s true of the stories that memory provides us , and it &apos;s true of the stories that we invent .
what a story is , it &apos;s outbreaks , major moments and ends .
it &apos;s very , very important at the end , and in this case , the end dominated .
well , the living self lives its life continuously .
it has moments of experience , one after the other .
and you ask them , what happens to these moments ?
and the answer is really simple . they &apos;re lost forever .
i mean , most of the moments of our lives -- and i &apos;ve calculated this -- you know , the psychological presence is about three seconds . what you know is that in a life there are about 600 million of them . in a month , there &apos;s about 600,000 . most of them don &apos;t leave any trace .
most of you are completely ignored by the memory itself .
very expensive real estate .
and yet , you kind of get the impression that you should count , that what &apos;s happening during that moment of life is our lives .
it &apos;s the limited resource that we use while we &apos;re in the world .
and how we use them would seem to be important , but that &apos;s not the story that keeps the memory itself from us .
so we have the memory of self and the living self , and they &apos;re really quite different .
the biggest difference between them is time to deal .
from the point of view of the living self , if you have a vacation , and the second week is just as good as the first , then the two-week vacation is twice as good as the one-week vacation .
that &apos;s not how it works at all for the memory itself .
for the memory of self , a two-week vacation is barely better than the one-week vacation , because there are no new memories that are added .
they didn &apos;t change the story .
and in this way , time is actually the critical variable that distinguishes a memory self from a living self . time has very little influence on this story .
beautiful beach . great day . you have it all for yourself .
now , the memory itself makes more than remembering and telling stories .
it &apos;s actually the one that makes decisions , because if you have a patient who had , say , two daring mirrors in two different surgeons and decides which one to choose , it &apos;s the one who chooses the memory , which is less bad , and that &apos;s the surgeon who &apos;s going to be chosen .
the living self has no voice in that election .
in fact , we don &apos;t choose between experiences . we choose between memories of experiences .
and even when we think about the future , we don &apos;t usually think of our future as experiences .
we think about our future as anticipated memories .
and basically , you can look at this , you know , as a tyranny of the memory self , and you can think of the memory itself as one , which sort of travels the living self through experiences that the living self doesn &apos;t need .
i have the impression that if we do vacation , it &apos;s very often the case , which means that we make vacation in the service of the memory itself .
and that &apos;s a little hard to justify , i think .
i mean , how much do we eat from our memories ?
this is a people who are not cognitively different from the colors of blue and green , because the celestial scene is matched to the forest that people depend on .
what could be better ? &quot; damn &quot; the man thinks , &quot; it &apos;s august .
this is one of the explanations that is given for the dominance of memory itself .
and when i think about it , i think of a vacation that we did a few years ago in antarctica , which was clearly the best vacation i &apos;ve ever had , and i think quite often in relation to how many times i think of other vacations .
and i &apos;ve probably eaten from my memories of this three-week journey , i would say for about 25 minutes in the last four years .
now , if i had ever opened the folder with the 600 pictures in it , i would have spent another hour .
well , that &apos;s three weeks , and that &apos;s at least one and a half hours .
there seems to be a disagreement .
now , i may be a little extreme , you know , in how little appetite i have on the toes of memories , but even if you make more of them , there &apos;s a real question : why do we give so much weight in the mind to the weight that we experience ?
so i want you to think about a thought experiment .
imagine your next vacation , you know , at the end of the vacation , all of your images are devastated , and you get an amnesiac drug , so you &apos;re not going to remember anything .
well , would you choose the same vacation ?
everybody in my manhattan neighborhood is gone .
and if you chose another vacation , there &apos;s a conflict between your two types of self , and you have to think about how you decide this conflict , and it &apos;s really not obvious at all , because if you think in the sense of time , you get an answer , and if you think in the sense of memories , you might get a different answer .
why we choose the vacation that we choose is a problem that we face with a choice between the two types of self .
now , the two types of self are two terms of happiness .
there are actually two concepts of happiness that we can apply , one per self .
so you can ask : how happy is the living self ?
and then you would ask : how happy are the moments in the life of the living self ?
and they &apos;re all -- happiness for moments is a pretty complicated process .
what are the emotions that can be measured ?
and , by the way , we &apos;re now able to get a pretty good idea of the happiness of the living self over time .
if you ask for the luck of the memory itself , it &apos;s a very different thing .
i could park right in front of my house . &quot;
it &apos;s not about how happy a person lives .
it &apos;s about how satisfied or delighted that person is when that person thinks about their lives .
very different term .
anyone who doesn &apos;t distinguish these terms will mash the exploration of happiness , and i &apos;m part of a lot of researchers about well-being that have long massed the exploration of happiness in this way .
the distinction between the happiness of the living self and the satisfaction of the memory self has been recognized in the last few years , and now you &apos;re trying to measure the two separate .
the gallup organization has a global survey , where more than half a million people have been asked about what they think about their lives and their experience , and there have been other efforts in the direction .
so in the last few years , we &apos;ve started to learn about the happiness of the two types of self .
and the main lesson that i think we &apos;ve learned is that they &apos;re really different .
you can know how satisfied someone is with his life , and that really doesn &apos;t teach you much about how happy he lives and vice versa .
just to give you an idea of the correlation , the correlation is about .5 .
and he &apos;s spending two weeks following the thought that he &apos;s missed the opportunity to have a great parking lot day after day .
what that means is that if you met someone , and you would tell them , oh , his father is a two-meter man , how much would you know about his size ?
well , you would know something about its size , but there &apos;s a lot of uncertainty .
they have so much uncertainty .
if i tell you that somebody has arranged their life as eight on a scale of 10 , they have a lot of uncertainty about how happy he is with his own living self .
so the correlation is low .
we know something about what determines happiness .
we know that money is very important , goals are very important .
we know that happiness is mostly about being satisfied with people we like to spend time with people we like .
there are other pleasure , but that &apos;s dominant .
so if you want to maximize the happiness of the two types of self , you will end up doing very different things .
oppertune cost drops the happiness that we get from our choice , even if what we chose is fantastic .
the conclusion of what i &apos;ve said here is that we really shouldn &apos;t think of happiness as a replacement for well-being .
it &apos;s a completely different term .
now , very briefly , another reason that we can &apos;t really think about happiness is that we don &apos;t pay attention to the same things when we think about life and when we actually live .
so if you ask the simple question of how happy people in california will not get the correct answer .
if you ask that question , you think that people have to be happier in california when they live , say , in ohio .
and what happens is that when you think about life in california , think about the difference between california and other places , and that difference is , say , in the climate .
well , it turns out that climate is not very important for the living self , and it &apos;s not even very important for the thoughtful self that decides how happy people are .
now , because the thoughtful self is responsible , you can end up -- some people could end up going to california .
and it &apos;s kind of interesting to track what happens to people who move to california in hopes to get happier .
well , your living self is not going to be happier .
and the more options there are to choose , the more attractive properties of that choice are taken into the oppertunnel cost .
we know that .
but one thing is going to happen . you &apos;re going to think you &apos;re happier , because if you think about it , you &apos;re going to be reminded of how horrible the weather was in ohio , and you &apos;re going to feel that you &apos;ve made the right decision .
it &apos;s very difficult to think clearly about well-being , and i hope i &apos;ve given you a sense of how difficult it is .
thank you .
thank you . i have a question for you .
thank you .
now , when we did the phone a couple of weeks ago , they told me that there was a pretty interesting result that came out of this gallup poll .
is this something you can let us participate in because you have a few minutes left ?
daniel kahneman : sure .
i think the most interesting thing that we found in the gallup poll is a number we had absolutely not expected to find .
here &apos;s another example .
we found that in terms of the happiness of the living self .
when we looked at how feelings vary with income .
and it turns out that under an income of 60,000 dollars a year , for americans , and this is a very large sample of americans , about 600,000 , but it &apos;s a big representative sample , under an income of 600,000 dollars a year .
60,000 .
dk : 60,000 .
60,000 dollars a year , people are unhappy , and they &apos;re getting more and less happy , the poorer they get .
we get an absolutely flat line about that .
i mean , i rarely saw flat lines .
what &apos;s happening is that money doesn &apos;t give you an experience of happiness , but that scarcity of money is certainly making you miserable , and we can measure that misery very , very clearly .
in the spirit of the other self , the memory itself , you get a different story .
now , this cartoon makes some statements .
the more money you make , the more happy you are .
that &apos;s not true of emotions .
but danny , in the entire american pursuit , is about life , freedom , the pursuit of happiness .
if people took this finding seriously , i mean , it seems to turn everything on its head , everything we believe , for example , in terms of tax policy and so on .
is there a chance that politicians would generally take a fund like the serious , and based on politics ?
dk : you know , i think there &apos;s recognition for the role of happiness research in politics .
the recognition is going to be slow in the united states , not a question , but in the united kingdom , it &apos;s happening right now , and it &apos;s happening in other countries .
people are about to recognize that they should think about happiness when they think about politics .
it &apos;s going to take a while , and people will discuss whether they want to explore experience happiness , or whether they want to study life grades , so we have to have this discussion pretty soon .
how to increase happiness is very different depending on how you think , and whether you think about the memory itself , or whether you think about the living self .
he makes a statement about living in the moment , and maybe about doing things slowly .
this is going to affect politics , i think , in the coming years .
in the united states , you &apos;re struggling to measure the experience of the population .
this , i think , will be part of the national statistics in the next decade or two .
well , it seems to me that this topic is going to be , or should at least be the most interesting political debate to follow over the next few years .
thank you very much for the invention of behavioral economics .
thank you , danny kahneman .
i &apos;m jane mcgonigal . i design video games .
i &apos;ve been developing online games for 10 years now , and my goal for the next decade is to make it as easy to save the world in reality as it is in online games .
i have a plan for it . i want to convince more people to spend more time playing bigger and more amazing games , including all of them .
now we spend three billion hours a week playing online games .
but an important point that he makes is that every time you choose to do one thing , you decide not to do other things .
some of you might think , &quot; this is a lot of time for games . &quot;
maybe a little too much time when you think about how many problems we have to solve in the real world .
but in fact , following my research at the institute for the future , that &apos;s exactly the opposite .
three billion hours a week is not nearly enough to solve the most urgent problems in the world .
in fact , i believe that if we want to survive the next century on this planet , we have to dramatically increase that time .
i calculated that the time it took at 21 billion hours of play a week .
this may first seem a little bit abundant , so i repeat it to make it work : if we want to solve problems like hunger , poverty , climate change , global conflicts and obesity , i think we need to try to play games online for at least 21 billion hours a week to the end of the next decade .
no , i &apos;m really serious .
why ? this picture pretty much describes why i think games are so essential to the survival of human species in the future . seriously .
this is a portrait of photographer phil toledano .
they have a strange language and a marriage prescription called linguistic exogamy : you have to marry someone who speaks a different language .
and these other things may have a lot of attractive properties , and it will make you less attractive .
he wanted to capture the feelings in playing , so he built a camera in front of the players .
this is one of the classic expressions of play .
if you &apos;re not a player , you might have some of the nuances in this picture .
you probably see this sense of urgency , a little bit of fear , but also external concentration , deeply immersed in solving a really difficult problem .
if you also play , you &apos;ll see some nuances here , the eyes that are zoomed up and the mouth are a sign of optimism . the eyebrows are surprising .
this is a player standing on the edge of what &apos;s called an epic victory .
oh , you know that . ok . great . so we have some players here .
an epic victory is a result that is so super-positive that you didn &apos;t even know that it was possible at all .
it was almost beyond the imagination .
and when you get to it , you &apos;re shocked that you &apos;re actually able to do something like this . this is an epic victory .
third , escalation of expectations .
this player is about to be an epic victory .
and this is what we need to see on millions of factors of problem-solving holes around the world , when we take the barriers of the next century , the face of those who are against all the vities on the edge of an epic victory .
well , unfortunately , we &apos;re more likely to see this face in real life when we face difficult problems .
i call it &quot; in life i &apos;m bad &quot; face . and it &apos;s actually my face , see ? yes ? ok .
that &apos;s me doing the &quot; in life i &apos;m bad &quot; face .
this is a graffiti in my former home in berkeley , california , where i studied my ph.d. , why we &apos;re better in games than we are in real life .
that &apos;s a problem that a lot of players have .
we think that we &apos;re not as good in reality as we are in games .
and i don &apos;t just mean less successful , although that &apos;s part of it .
we do more in game worlds . i mean , well , in the context of motivation to do something significant , inspired by collaboration .
this struck me when i wanted to exchange my jeans .
when we &apos;re in a game world , i think a lot of us are transforming into our best version at any time and instantly helpful to try to solve the problem , as long as it takes , to try it again .
and in reality , when we fail , when we hit obstacles , we often feel different .
we feel overwhelmed . we feel defeated . we feel threatened , maybe depressed , frustrated or cynical .
we never have these feelings when we play games , they just don &apos;t exist in games .
and that &apos;s what i wanted to study as a ph.d. student .
why is it impossible in games to think that you could not just achieve everything ?
how can we transfer these feelings from play into reality ?
so i looked at games like the world of warcraft , which offers the ideal environment for collaborative problem solving .
and i &apos;ve found some things that make epic victories possible in online worlds .
so , first of all , when you get into one of these online games , especially in the world of warcraft , there are a lot of different characters who are willing to trust you with a global mission immediately .
i &apos;m wearing jeans , almost all the time .
but not just any mission , but a mission that fits perfectly to your current level in the game , right ?
so you can do that .
they never get a task that they can &apos;t solve .
but always at the edge of their skills , so they have to be hard , but there &apos;s no unemployment in the world of warcraft .
you &apos;re not sitting around and spinning . there &apos;s always something important to do .
and there &apos;s a lot of staff .
wherever you go , hundreds of thousands of people working with you to finish your epic mission .
we don &apos;t really have that simple in real life , that feeling that there &apos;s a fingerprint that &apos;s ready for a staff .
there &apos;s also this epic story , this inspiring story of why we are there and what we have to do .
then we get all this positive feedback .
and there was one time when there was only one kind of jeans , and they bought them , and they were badly adapted , they were incredibly uncomfortable , and if they had long enough and often washed enough , they started feeling &quot; ok . &quot;
you &apos;ve heard from &quot; level up &quot; and &quot; + 1 strength , &quot; or &quot; + 1 intelligence . &quot;
this constant feedback is not in real life .
when i leave this stage , i don &apos;t have to speak to you : + 1 crazy idea , + 20 crazy idea .
i don &apos;t get that feedback in real life .
so , the problem of the cooperative online worlds like world of warcraft is that it &apos;s so satisfying to be on the verge of an epic victory at any time that we prefer to spend all of our time in these worlds .
they &apos;re just better than reality .
so far , all the world of warcraft players have spent 5.93 million years trying to solve the virtual problems of azeroth .
that &apos;s not necessarily a bad thing .
it may sound bad .
but to see it in the context , 5.93 million years ago , our first primate ancestors started to go upright .
so to buy new jeans after many years of wearing the old , and i said , &quot; i &apos;d like to have some jeans , here &apos;s my size . &quot;
so the first exciting primate .
ok , so when we talk about how much time we spend with play right now , it just makes sense when you look at the time in terms of the scale of human development , which is extraordinary .
but also , it turns out that by using all this time on play , we actually change what we can do as people .
we &apos;re developing into collaborative , cardiac beings .
that &apos;s the truth . that &apos;s what i believe in .
if you look at this interesting statistic that was recently published by a researcher at carnegie mellon university : the average young person from today in a country with strong play spends 10,000 hours of online play to the 21st year of life .
so , 10,000 hours is a very interesting number for two reasons .
first of all , for kids in the united states , 10,080 hours is the exact total amount that they spend in school , from the fifth grade to the graduation of high school -- if you never miss .
so here we have a complete parallel education in which young people learn exactly what it means to be a good player , like anything else they learn in school .
and maybe some of you have read the new book by malcolm gladwell , &quot; flying over . &quot;
and the salesman said , &quot; do you want snake , easy or wide ?
so you know his theory of success , the theory of the success of 10,000 hours .
it &apos;s based on the great research of cognitive science that if we spend 10,000 hours studying any subject to the 21st year of life , we will be mastered in it .
we &apos;re getting so good at doing whatever the most important people in the world do .
so what we have here is a whole generation of young people who are master-players .
so the big question is , &quot; what exactly are the players in mastery ? &quot;
because if we could figure that out , we would have , sort of , unprecedented human potential before .
so many people now in the world who spend at least an hour playing online .
these are our master-players , 500 million people who are extraordinarily good at something .
and in the next decade , we have another billion players who are extraordinarily good at whatever .
if you haven &apos;t heard it yet .
do you want buttons or nuts ? stone or acid ?
the game industry is developing consoles that save energy and work on mobile networks , instead of the broadband internet , so that players can play around the world , especially in india , china , brazil online .
you expect an extra billion players in the next decade .
so we have a total of 1.5 billion players .
so i started thinking about what it is that these games are doing to us .
here are the four things i found . first of all , urgency optimism .
ok , so think of this as extreme self-motivation .
urgency optimism is the desire to do something immediately , to master a hurdle , along with the belief that we have a reasonable hope for success .
players always believe that an epic victory is possible , and it &apos;s always worth trying , and it &apos;s the same .
players are not sitting around .
players are masters in poet social nets .
do you want jeans with holes ?
there &apos;s a lot of interesting studies that show that we like people more after we &apos;ve played with them , even if they &apos;ve defeated us evil .
the reason for that is that it requires a lot of trust to play with someone a game .
we trust that someone spends time with us , that the rules are held , that we have the same goal and stay with the game .
so the interaction enables the growing of ties , trust and each other .
as a result , we build stronger social relations .
happy productivity . fantastic !
you know , there &apos;s a reason why the average word of warcraft players play 22 hours a week , sort of as a part-time job .
the reason is that when we play , we &apos;re actually happier at working hard than when we relax or do nothing .
we know that as human beings , we work optimally when we do hard , significant work .
and players are always ready to work hard if they get the right task .
do you want to cut far down , cookly , blah , blah , blah , &quot; and so on , he said .
and finally , epic meaning .
players love to become part of awe missions of planetary scale .
here &apos;s a backbone formation to put that in perspective . you all know wikipedia , the largest wiki in the world .
the second largest wiki in the world , with almost 80,000 entries , is the world of warcraft wiki .
five million people use it every month .
they &apos;ve put more information together about the world of warcraft on the internet than any other subject in any other wiki of the world .
they create an epic story .
they create an epic source of knowledge about the world of warcraft .
ok , so these are four superpowers that lead to a single outcome . players are super-powerful , hopeful individuals .
it &apos;s people who believe that as individuals , they can change the world .
all of this is rooted in the mythological past , the strange thing about these big houses , where , because of the mischievous six or seven languages , it &apos;s that you never hear somebody who learns a language .
my jaw was down , and after i recovered , i said , &quot; i would like to have the one that used to be the only species . &quot;
and the only problem is that you think you can change the virtual worlds , but not the real world .
that &apos;s the problem i &apos;m trying to solve .
edward castronova is a folk scientist .
his work is brilliant . he studies why people spend so much time , energy and money in online worlds .
and he says , &quot; we &apos;re not going to witness less than a mass migration in virtual worlds and online game environments . &quot;
and this is from an economist . so he &apos;s logical .
and he says ...
not like me -- i develop games , i &apos;m a little bit overwhelming .
so he says that actually makes sense , because players can reach more in online worlds than in real life .
they can form stronger social ties in games than they do in real life . they get more feedback and rewards in games than they do in real life .
he had no idea what that was , so i spent an hour trying all of these damn jeans , and i gave the business -- and i say the truth -- with the best passenger jeans i &apos;ve ever had .
so , he says it &apos;s completely logical now that players spend more time in the virtual world than they do in the real world .
i &apos;ll just agree , that &apos;s logical .
but it &apos;s definitely not an optimal situation .
we need to start transforming the real world into a game .
my inspiration comes from an event that &apos;s 2,500 years ago .
there are these ancient cubes of sheep . you know ?
before these fantastic game controllers , there were sheep cords .
and these were sort of the first people to develop toys .
and if you &apos;re familiar with the works of the ancient greek historian herodotus , you might know this story , the story about how and why games were invented .
according to herodotus , games , more specifically cubic games , in the kingdom of lydia during a famine .
i did better . all this choice allowed me to do better .
there was such a great famine that the king of lydia decided to come up with a crazy idea .
people were suffering . people were fighting .
it was an extreme situation . you needed an extreme solution .
so they invented , according to herodotus , the cubic game , and they agreed a national strategy , and on a day you would eat . the next day you would play .
and they would be so deeply immersed in the box , because games are so fascinating and surrounded us with satisfying , happy productivity , that they would forget that there was nothing to eat .
and then the next day you would play , and the next day you would eat .
and according to herodotus , they survived this famine for 18 years by eating and playing the next day .
likewise , i think we &apos;re using games today .
we use games to get away from the suffering of the real world .
we use games to get away from everything that doesn &apos;t work in the real world , everything that &apos;s not satisfying in real life , and we get what we need out of play .
but i felt worse .
but that doesn &apos;t have to be the end .
that &apos;s the exciting thing .
according to herodotus , after 18 years , the famine didn &apos;t get better , so the king decided to put a final cubic game .
they divided the kingdom into two halves .
they played a cubic game , and the winners were allowed to break into an epic adventure .
they left lydias , and they went looking for a new home , and they left just as many people as there were food to survive , and they looked for an area where they could thrive .
it sounds crazy , right ?
but the latest dna evidence shows that the etrussels who later formed the roman empire have the same dna as the old lydics .
so scientists recently realized that herodotus &apos; crazy story is actually true .
and geologists found evidence of a global cooling that took almost 20 years to explain the famine .
why ? i wrote a whole book to try and explain it to myself .
so this crazy story could be true .
maybe they actually rescued their people through play by flipping into games for 18 years and then having this introduction and learning so much about playing with each other that they saved the entire civilization .
so , we can do that .
we &apos;ve been playing warcraft since 1994 .
this was the first strategy game in real time in the world of warcraft series . this was 16 years ago .
they played field games for 18 years , we &apos;ve been playing warcraft for 16 years .
i &apos;m saying we &apos;re ready for our own epic game .
so , they sent half of their civilization to look for a new world , so i take my 21 billion game hours a week .
we should survey that half of us spend an hour a day playing games until we &apos;ve solved the problems of the real world .
i know you &apos;re going to ask , &quot; how do we solve problems in the real world in games ? &quot; and that &apos;s the question that i &apos;ve devoted my work at the institute for the past few years .
the reason i felt worse was because of all these available possibilities , my expectations for what makes up a good couple of jeans , went up .
we have this banner in our office in palo alto , and it expresses how we should understand the future .
we don &apos;t want to try to tell the future before .
what we want to do is create the future .
we want to imagine the best possible outcome , and then empowering people to put this idea into reality .
we imagine epic victories , and we give people the opportunity to achieve them .
i &apos;m going to show you very briefly three games that i &apos;ve designed to try to get people epic victories in their own future .
this is &quot; world without oil . &quot;
the game is from 2007 .
it &apos;s an online game where you have to overcome an oil scarcity .
i had very low expectations . i had no concrete expectations when they were just in a way .
we &apos;ve tested this game with 1,700 players in 2007 , and we &apos;ve been accompaniing it since the last three years .
and i can tell you , it was a transformative experience .
nobody wants to change their lives because it &apos;s good for the environment , or because we should .
but if you &apos;re in an epic adventure and you say , &quot; we &apos;re running out of oil . &quot;
this is a fascinating adventure you go to .
find out how they would survive . most of our players have maintained the habits in the game .
so we set a bigger , higher goal for the next world game than just oil scarcity .
we &apos;ve developed the game superstruct at the institute for the future .
the starting point is to calculate a supercomputer that people only have 23 years left on the planet .
this supercomputer is called &quot; global mortality sensitive system , &quot; of course .
when they came in 100 ways , damn well , one of them should have been perfect .
the call to players to sign up , we almost designed a jerry bruckheimer film .
you know jerry bruckheimer movies , where there &apos;s the dream-team , they have the astronauts , the scientists , the ex-strings , and only together they can save the world .
but in our game , instead of just five people , we say everybody is in the dream-team , and it &apos;s our job to create the future for energy , food , health , security and the future of social justice .
8,000 players played the game for eight weeks .
they found 500 incredibly creative solutions that they can read when they google &quot; superstruct . &quot;
and the last game we bring out on march 3 , which is a game in collaboration with the world bank .
if you finish the game , from the world bank , you get the award of &quot; social change , &quot; graduation in 2010 .
we &apos;re working with universities all over sub-saharan africa and inviting them to learn social redesign .
we have a comic book on this . we have &quot; level &quot; for regional understanding , knowledge networking , sustainability , vision and ingenuity .
i want to invite you all to share this game with young people all over the world , especially in developing areas that benefit from each other to imagine their own social enterprises to save the world .
and what i got was good , but it wasn &apos;t perfect .
i &apos;ll end now .
i want to ask you something .
what do you think happens next ?
we have all these fantastic players , we have games that show us what we can do , but we haven &apos;t saved the real world yet .
well , i hope you &apos;ll agree that players are human resources that we can use to work in real life , and that games have a big meaning for change .
we have all these superpowers , happy productivity , the ability to knit close social nets , urgency optimism and desire for epic meaning .
i really hope that we play significant games together to survive on this planet for another century .
and i hope you &apos;ll design and play with me .
when i look ahead for the next decade , i &apos;m sure in two things : that we can create any future we can imagine , and that we can play all kinds of games .
so i say , let &apos;s start the world-changing games !
and so i compared what i &apos;d gotten to what i expected , and what i had was disappointing compared to what i expected .
thank you .
i &apos;d like to tell you something that i noticed a few months ago writing an article for italian wired .
i always had my synonymous dictionary when i was writing , but i was already ready to work with the text , and i noticed that i &apos;ve never looked up in my life what the word &quot; disabled &quot; really means .
i &apos;m going to read you the post .
&quot; disabled , &quot; adjectively : &quot; warranted , helpless , useless , destroyed , defeated , mutilated , defeated , stored , deprived , deprived , distorted , shattered , impotent , castated , paralyzed , handicapt senil , old age , pulled out of traffic , repaired , broken , counted , injured , injured , useless and weak .
antonyme : healthy , strong , powerful . &quot;
i read this list to a friend , and i had to laugh at first , it was so ridiculous , but i just came up to &quot; lit , &quot; and i couldn &apos;t keep talking , and i had to stop reading and gathering for the first time after this transcendent word tide and the associated emotional shock .
of course , this was a franc , old synonymous dictionary , and i just thought that the copy had to be quite old .
but in fact , it was a copy of the early 1980s when i was just starting elementary school , and started to build and form my self-image outside my family environment , even in terms of other kids and the rest of the world around me .
and thank god i didn &apos;t use a synonymous dictionary at the time .
you just listen and then you start talking .
adding options to people &apos;s lives is inevitably increasing the expectations that people have about how good these options will be .
if i took this entry seriously , i would be born into a world that someone like me would perceive as a person whose life can &apos;t be done in any positive way , but today i &apos;m going to celebrate for the odds and adventures that i &apos;ve experienced .
so i immediately called myself the online copy of 2009 and expected me to find a more appealing contribution here .
here &apos;s the updated version of this entry .
dumb , it &apos;s not much better .
in particular , the last two words shake me &quot; near antonyms &quot; and &quot; healthy . &quot;
but it &apos;s not just the words .
it &apos;s about what we think about the people we describe with these words .
it &apos;s about the values that are in these words , and how we construct these values .
our language affects our thinking and how we see the world and the people around us .
many ancient societies , including the greeks and the roman , have really believed that the language of an escape has a great force , because what you &apos;re talking about can also manifest .
and this leads to less happiness with the results , even though the results are good .
so , what do we really want to manifest -- a disabled person or a powerful person ?
just calling a human being mindless as a child could be enough to constrain them and to overcome ideas .
wouldn &apos;t it be nice to open them up ?
a person who opened doors for me was my pediatrician at a.i. dupont institute in wilmington in delaware .
he &apos;s called dr. pizzutillo . a italo american whose name , as you can imagine , most americans couldn &apos;t speak correctly , so he was always called dr. p.
and dr. p. always wore very colorful flies and was just designed for working with kids .
i found the time i spent in this hospital , just great -- except for my physical therapy .
i had to have individual exercises , seemingly , repeatedly repeatedly , with these thick , elastic bands -- in different colors -- you know , to build my leg muscles , and i hated these bands more than anything else . i hated them . i hated them . i hated them .
and imagine i even negotiated with dr. p. as a five-year-old child , and so i tried to stop these practices , naturally without success .
and one day , he saw me in one of my practices -- these practices were just tiring and graceful -- and he said to me , &quot; wow , aimee , you &apos;re such a strong , powerful and young girl , you &apos;re going to tear one day one of these benches .
nobody in the world of marketing knows this , because if you did , you wouldn &apos;t know what this is about .
and if you can do it , i &apos;ll give you a hundred dollars . &quot;
and of course , this was just a simple trick from dr. p. , so that i could make the practices that i didn &apos;t want to do with the prospect that there were five year-old girls in the hospital in the second floor , but he actually got me to see my daily practice horror with new eyes , and so it became a new and promising experience .
and i wonder today how much his vision of me as a strong and powerful young girl has shaped my self-image , and i could think of myself as one of nature of strong , powerful and atlethic people .
this is just an example of many of the ways that adults in positions of power can stimulate the imagination of a child .
but like the already quoted examples of the synonymous dictionaries , our language doesn &apos;t allow us to imagine something that we would all wish : to allow each individual to see themselves as powerful people .
our language is about social change that has been triggered in many cases by a technological change .
and of course , from a medical standpoint , you can say that my legs , the laser surgery for visually impaired , knee joints from titan and artificial hip joints for aging bodies that allow people to really use all of their possibilities and beyond the limits that they have naturally devoted to their natural destiny , not to speak of social networking platforms , people are able to give their own identity , define themselves in their own way , and navigate around the world to groups that they choose themselves .
so maybe this technological change is more clear than ever that there has been a different truth , which is that every human being can give society something special and very powerful , and that the human ability to adapt is our biggest plus .
the human ability to adapt -- this is an interesting story , because people keep asking me to tell you about how i deal with adversity , and i &apos;m going to tell you something : this sentence has never fed for me , and i &apos;ve always felt very uncomfortable with answering people &apos;s questions , and i think , gradually , i understand why .
and that sales of dealing with adversity live on the idea that success or happiness depends on mastering a challenge without being coined by the experience associated with it , as if my life had been so successful , because i could outweigh the possible falling of a life with a prosthetic , or whatever people perceive me with my disability .
the truth is more like this .
but the truth is that we &apos;re changing . of course , we &apos;re shaped by the challenge , whether it &apos;s physical , emotional or even both .
and i &apos;m saying that &apos;s good .
adversity is not an obstacle that we need to curve in order to deal with our lives better .
adversity is just part of our lives .
and i tend to think of adversity as my shadow .
sometimes i realize that it &apos;s very present , sometimes it &apos;s hardly seen , but it &apos;s constantly with me .
and i don &apos;t want to make the impact , or the severe , of a human being &apos;s fight .
there are adversity and challenges in life , and they &apos;re just ubiquitous , and every person is going to deal with it differently , but the question is not whether we can deal with adversity or not , but how we deal with it .
so not only are we responsible for preserving the people we love from destiny strikes , but we also prepare them to get good at it .
and we don &apos;t like our kids if we give them the feeling that they can &apos;t adapt .
the reason is that it used to be better than anything that was worse than anything , it was possible for people to experience a pleasant surprise .
you have to separate two things clearly : one is the medical fact of being amputated and another , the social opinion about whether i &apos;m disabled or not .
and to be honest , the only real and persistent disability that i had to deal with is that the world always says that it could describe me with these definitions .
in our desire to protect the people who care about us , and to tell them the cold , hard truth about their medical projection , or even to put a forecast on quality of life that they expect , we have to pay attention to the fact that we don &apos;t really put the ground for somebody to be disabled .
maybe the current concept that &apos;s just paying attention to what &apos;s in a broken , and how we repair that , for each individual , is a greater disability than the pathology itself .
if we don &apos;t wholly treat a human being , and we don &apos;t perceive and recognize all of its power and capabilities , we also create , in addition to the natural struggle that you might have to lead , another disease .
we degrade a human being that has value for our society .
so we have to look beyond the patology and focus on all the domain of human possibilities .
but most importantly , there is a connection between the perception of our inadequacy and our great invention .
we should not devalue or deny these challenging times , we should not try to avoid them , nor should we turn them under the carpet , but it &apos;s about recognizing the odds of opportunity .
i &apos;m more likely to be aware that we don &apos;t necessarily have to overcome adversity , but that we &apos;re open to embrace it , to put it on the opaque , to use a fight expression , and maybe even dance with it .
today , in the world that we live in -- we have wealthy , industrialized citizens , with perfection as an expectation -- the best thing you can ever hope for is that things are as good as you expect them .
and we may be able to think of adversity as something natural , coherent and useful , and we may not feel that way through their presence .
this year , we celebrate the 200th anniversary of charles darwin , and when he wrote about evolution 150 years ago , darwin , in my eyes , pointed out something very true in the human character .
i would rewrite it this way : not the strongest of its species survived , but also not the most intelligent of its kind , but the one that can best adapt to change .
conflict comes from creativity .
not only from darwin &apos;s work do we know that the human ability to survive and flourish is determined by the struggle of the human mind to turn through conflicts .
so , again , change and adaptation are the greatest human abilities .
and maybe we don &apos;t know what wood we &apos;re made of when we &apos;re really being tested .
maybe that &apos;s exactly what the meaning of adversity , a sense of self , is a sense of our own power .
we can give ourselves something like this .
we can give new meaning to adversity that goes beyond difficult times .
they &apos;re never going to be pleasant because their expectations , my expectations , are high .
maybe we can see adversity as a change .
adversity is a change that we haven &apos;t adapted to yet .
i think the biggest damage we &apos;ve added to ourselves is to believe that we should be normal .
let &apos;s face it -- who &apos;s normal ?
there &apos;s no normal .
there &apos;s the usual . the typical . but not the normal , and would you really want to know this poor , gray person , if there really were ?
i don &apos;t think so .
it would be great if we could exchange this paradigm of normality against another set of possibilities or strength to even make it a little bit more dangerous , so we can release the forces of a lot of children , and invite them to bring their special and valuable skills into society .
anthropolar has found that we have always asked people from the members of our society to be useful and to contribute .
there &apos;s evidence that the neanderthals , 60,000 years ago , older people and people with severe physical injuries , and that might have happened because the life experience in the survival of these people was valuable for society .
the secret to happiness -- that &apos;s what you &apos;ve all come to -- the secret to happiness is low expectations .
they didn &apos;t think of these people as broken and useless ; they were treated as something special and valuable .
a few years ago , i went to the city where i grew up , to a grocery store in this red zone in the northeast of pennsylvania , and i was standing there in front of a scheffel of tomato .
it was summer , and i had shorts .
and i hear a guy behind me saying , &quot; well , that &apos;s not aimee mullins . &quot;
and i turn around and i see this older man . i had no idea who he is .
and i said , &quot; excuse me , sir , we know ourselves ? i can &apos;t remember you . &quot;
and he said , &quot; well , you can barely remember me .
when i first saw her , i took her from her mother &apos;s belly . &quot;
oh , so that .
and of course , it did click .
i want to say -- a short autobiographical moment -- that i &apos;m married to a woman , and she &apos;s really wonderful .
this was dr. kean , a man who i only knew about my mother &apos;s narratives that day , because , of course , i got too late to my birthday two weeks .
my mother &apos;s prenatal diagnostic was on vacation , and so my parents didn &apos;t know the man who brought me to the world at all .
and because i was born without legs , and my feet had been set up after them , and i only had a few toes on this one and a few toes on the other foot was the overcovering , this stranger had to deliver the bad news .
he said to me , &quot; i had to tell your parents that you would never walk , and never be as moving as other kids , or that you could never live an independent life , and since then , they just punished me . &quot;
and what i found really extraordinary was that he had collected newspaper clips of my entire childhood , whether i &apos;d won a letter competition in the second grade , whether i &apos;d been out of the parade with the scores of the parade , whether i had my scholarship or one of my athletic victories , and he used these clips to teach his students , medical students from hahnemann medical school and hershey medical school .
and he called this part of his class the x factor , the potential of the human will .
you just can &apos;t emphasize enough how critical this factor can be to the quality of a human being .
and dr. kean said , he said , &quot; i &apos;ve learned that kids , if they don &apos;t get told anything else all the time , and even if they get a little bit of support , if you leave kids behind themselves , children can do a lot of things . &quot;
look , dr. kean changed his thinking .
he understood that the medical diagnosis , and how someone is dealing with it , are two different things .
i couldn &apos;t have done it better . i didn &apos;t let myself down .
and i also changed my thinking over time , if you asked me when i was 15 years old , if i had swapped my prostheses against legs of meat and bones , i wouldn &apos;t have hesitated for a second .
i really wanted to be normal at the time .
if you ask me that today , i &apos;m not so sure .
and that &apos;s what happened because i &apos;ve experienced something with my legs and not despite these experiences .
and maybe that change could happen too , because i &apos;ve met so many people who have opened doors to me , instead of meeting people who wanted to constrain me or have an idea .
you see , it really only takes one person to demonstrate to you how they can manifest their forces , and they &apos;re through .
if you allow someone to activate their own internal forces -- the human mind is so receptive -- if they can do that , and open a door for someone in a critical moment , they &apos;re a very good teacher for these people .
they teach them to open themselves doors .
the real meaning of the word educate is rooted in the word educe .
it means creating something that &apos;s in one of them is to tickle the potential .
or , one of the most intriguing tribes i &apos;ve ever lived with , the waorani in the northeast of ecuador , an amazing people who were first contacted peaceful in 1958 .
but defeating is not always such a bad thing .
again , what kind of potential do we want to call out ?
in the &apos; 60s , a case study was done in the u.k. , and then gymnasia was transformed into whole schools .
they call this &quot; streaming trials &quot; in the united states , we call this &quot; tracking . &quot;
students are divided by notes .
and the a students get more severe checked , get the better teachers and so on .
and then they gave them a three-month-long period of students with a &quot; sufficient &quot; note &quot; very good , &quot; and they were told that they were very smart , and after those three months , they really wrote one .
and of course , it breaks your heart , that reverse , the one-student was told that they were only sufficient .
and then after the three months , it was the same .
but only those who were still in school -- besides the students who had failed the school .
and the key thing about this study was that the teachers weren &apos;t informed .
finally , a consequence of buying a bad sitting jeans , if there &apos;s only one way to buy , is that if they &apos;re unsatisfied , and they wonder why , who is responsible , the answer is clear . the world is responsible . what could they do ?
the teachers didn &apos;t know that something was changed .
they were just told that they were the one-student , and that the students are sufficient with the note , and they have taught them something and treated them .
the only real disability is a broken mind , a mind that has been broken , has no hope . it doesn &apos;t find anything beautiful . it lacks our natural , childhood curiosity , and our innate ability of imagination .
but if we &apos;re able to support the human spirit to continue to hope to find ourselves and other people around us beautiful , to be curious and imaginative , then we &apos;re really putting our forces in a positive way .
if a mind has these qualities , we can create a new reality and new forms of existence .
i want to end with a poem that was written by a persian poet called hafiz in the 14th century , and that my friend jacques dembois told me about , and the poem is called , &quot; the god who only knows four words . &quot; every child knows god , not the god of the name , not the god of the commandment , but the god who only knows four words , and he always says , &quot; come on , dance with me . &quot;
come on , dance with me . thank you .
how would you like to be better than you are right now ?
suppose that , through a few changes in your genes , you could have a better memory -- more precise , more precise and faster .
or you want to be fitter , stronger , more powerful .
if hundreds of different kinds of jeans are available , and they buy one that &apos;s disappointing , and they ask them why , who is responsible ?
do you want to become more attractive and confident ?
what would it be like to live longer in good health ?
or maybe you &apos;re one of those who has been longing for more and more creativity .
which would you like the most ?
which would you like to have if it could only have one ?
creativity .
how many people would choose creativity ?
raise your hands . let me see .
a couple . probably about as many of the creative people here .
that &apos;s very good .
it &apos;s just as clear that the answer to the question is : you .
how many would choose to have a good memory ?
a few more .
what about fitness ?
a few less .
what about longevity ?
ah , the majority . i like to see that as a doctor .
if you could only have one of them , it would be a very different world .
is this all just education ?
or is it possible ?
evolution has been an ongoing topic here at the ted conference , but today i want to give you the view of a doctor on the subject .
they could have done better .
the great geneticist in the 20th century , t.g. dobzhansky , who was also a communicator in the russian orthodox church , once wrote a paper called &quot; nothing in biology doesn &apos;t make sense except in the lit of evolution . &quot;
now , if you &apos;re one of those who doesn &apos;t accept the proof of biological evolution , this would be a very good time to turn off your hearing , take your own personal communications device -- i &apos;ll give you permission -- and maybe you can take a look at kathryn schultz &apos;s book , which is to be wrong , because nothing in the course of this talk will make any sense for you .
but if you accept biological evolution , is it just about the past , or is it about the future ?
is it true for others , or is it true for us ?
this is another view of the tree of life .
in this picture , i put a bush as a center of branches in all directions , because if you look at the edges of the tree of life , all the existing specials at the tips of these branches have succeeded in evolutionary terms : they have survived ; it has demonstrated fitness and strength in its environment .
the human part of this book , far at the end , of course , is what we &apos;re most interested in .
we branch from a common ancestor to modern chimpanzees about six or eight million years ago .
in this period of time , maybe there were 20 or 25 different species of hominids .
some have come and gone .
with 100 different kinds of jeans in the window , there &apos;s no excuse for mistakes .
we &apos;ve been here for about 130,000 years .
it seems that we are quite remote from the other parts of the tree of life , but in fact , most of the time , the basic mechanisms of our cells are quite the same .
do you realize that we can use it and we can take the mechanisms of a common bacterium to produce the protein of the human insulin , which is used to treat diabetic ?
this is not like humaninsulin ; this is the same protein that &apos;s chemically undifferent from what comes out of the pancreas .
and while we &apos;re talking about bacteria , do you realize that every one of us in our gut is leading more bacteria than it &apos;s leading cells in the rest of our bodies ?
maybe 10 times as many .
i mean , do you think when antonio damasio asks for your self-image , do you think about the bacteria ?
our gut is a wonderfully hospitable environment for these bacteria .
it &apos;s warm , it &apos;s dark , it &apos;s wet , it &apos;s very comfortable .
and you &apos;re going to offer them all the nutrients that they could only wish without effort on their part .
and so , when people make decisions , and even though the results of the decisions are good , they feel disappointed , they accuse themselves .
it &apos;s really a very easy way for bacteria , with occasional interruptions of the unintended , jeodch forced to start .
but otherwise , they &apos;re a wonderful environment for these bacteria , just like they &apos;re important for their lives .
they &apos;re helping digestive nutrients , and they &apos;re protecting them against certain diseases .
but what &apos;s going to happen in the future ?
are we in a kind of evolutionary equilibrium in the form of a species ?
or are we meant to be something else -- something that might even be better adapted to the environment ?
now let &apos;s take a step back to the time of the big bang 14 billion years ago -- the earth , the solar system , about four and a half billion years ago -- the first signs of living things , maybe three to four billion years ago -- the first multi-cellular organisms , perhaps as much as 800 or a billion years ago -- and then the human species that has been formed in the last 130,000 years .
in this huge unfinished symphony of the universe , life on earth is just briefly measured ; the animal kingdom , like a single keyboard , and human life , a small notebook .
that &apos;s us .
this also represents the entertainment value of this talk , which is why i hope you &apos;ve enjoyed d .
clinical depression exploded in the industrial world in the last generation .
now , when i was a neuling in college , i had my first biology class .
i was fascinated by the elegance and beauty of biology .
i fell in love with the power of evolution , and i found something very fundamental : most of the existence of life in single organisms , each cell divides , and all the genetic information of the cell is carried on in both dead cells .
but at the time when multi-cellular organisms showed up , things began to change .
sexual reproduction comes into the picture .
and most importantly , with the introduction of sexual reproduction that the genome passes on , the rest of the body becomes desperate .
in fact , you could say that the inevitability of the death of our bodies occurs in evolution at the same moment as the sexual reproduction .
now , i have to admit , when i was a college student , i thought , okay , sex / death , sex / death , death for sex -- it seemed to be pretty reasonable at that point , but with every year , it &apos;s come to my growing doubt .
i &apos;ve come to understand the feelings of george burns who performed his show in las vegas in the &apos; 90s .
and one night , there &apos;s a knob on his hotel room door .
i think a significant -- not the only one , but a significant contributor to this explosion of depression , and suicide , is that people have learned the disappointment because their standards are so high , and then , if they have to explain these experiences , they think it &apos;s their fault .
he opens the door .
there &apos;s a beautiful , splendid showgirl in front of him .
she looks at him and she says , &quot; i &apos;m here for super-sex . &quot;
&quot; that &apos;s wonderful , &quot; says george , &quot; i &apos;ll take the soup . &quot;
i came to the conclusion that as a physician , i was working on a goal that was different from the goal of evolution -- not necessarily contradicting , just different .
i tried to preserve the body .
i wanted to keep ourselves healthy .
i wanted to restore the health after a disease .
i wanted us to live a long and healthy life .
evolution is all about the passing the genome to the next generation , adaptation and survival generation after generation .
and so the image result is that we &apos;re generally better off , objective , and we &apos;re feeling worse .
from an evolutionary standpoint , you and i are evolved like boster rockets to send the genetic questionnaire to the next stage of the orbit , and then drop into the sea .
i think we would all understand the mood that woody allen expressed when he said , &quot; i don &apos;t want to achieve immortality from my work .
i want to do it by not dying . &quot;
evolution doesn &apos;t necessarily mean to prefer the longest life .
it doesn &apos;t necessarily prioritize the biggest , the strongest or the fastest , and not even the smartest .
evolution prioritizes the creatures that are best adapted to their environment .
it &apos;s just the test of survival and success .
on the bottom of the ocean , bacteria are there that are thermophil , and in doing so , the hot vapor will survive otherwise , if fish were there , they would have a vacuum of boiled fish , yet they would have managed to make a habitable environment for themselves .
so , what does that mean if we look back at what &apos;s going on in evolution , and how we think about the place of people in evolution , and particularly how we look forward to the next phase , i would say that there are a number of possibilities .
the first is that we &apos;re not going to evolve .
in 1957 , five missionary contact was trying to make a severe mistake .
so let me remind you .
we &apos;ve reached some kind of balance .
and the reason it would be is that , first of all , we &apos;ve been able to get a lot of genes that would have been selected and been removed from the population .
and secondly , we , as a species , have configured our environment so that we &apos;ve managed to adapt to us , and we adapt to them .
and by the way , we &apos;re going and circulating and mixing , so much that they can no longer say that isolation is necessary for evolution to find status .
a second possibility is that it will be an evolution of traditional species , of course , imposed by the forces of nature .
and the argument here would be that the wheels of evolution are slowly mapping , but they &apos;re inexorable .
and as far as the isolation goes , if we colonize as a distant planet , there will be isolation and the changes in the environment that evolution could produce in a natural way .
but there &apos;s a third possibility , a devastating , fascinating and terrifying possibility .
i call it neo-evolution -- the new development that &apos;s not just natural but led and decided to be individual in the decisions that we make .
now , how could this happen ?
this is the official dogma that one we all think is completely wrong . it &apos;s not true .
how could we be able to do this ?
let &apos;s first look at the reality that people today , in some cultures , make decisions about their offspring .
they are , in some cultures , the choice to have more men than women .
it &apos;s not necessarily good for society , but it &apos;s what the individual and the family decides .
so think , if it wasn &apos;t only possible to choose the gender of your child , but also to anticipate genetic adaptations in your body that would heal and prevent disease .
what if you could make the genetic changes to eliminate diabetes or alzheimer &apos;s , or to eliminate the risk of cancer or stroke ?
would you not want to make these changes in your genes ?
if we look ahead , these kinds of changes will be increasingly possible .
the human genome project started in 1990 , and it took 13 years .
it cost 2.7 billion dollars .
there &apos;s no question that &apos;s a little better than no choice , but it doesn &apos;t follow that more choice is better than choice .
the following year , when it was done in 2004 , they could do the same thing for 20 million dollars in one to four months .
today , you can complete a sequence of the three billion base pairs of the human genome at a price of about $ 20,000 and into the space of about a week .
it &apos;s not going to take a long time for the reality that there &apos;s going to be 1,000 dollars of human genomes , and it &apos;s going to be increasingly available to everybody .
a week ago , the national academy of engineering gave the draper prize for francis arnold and wild stemmer , two scientists who independently developed techniques that encourage the natural process of evolution to work faster and lead to desirable proteins in a more efficient way -- what frances arnold calls &quot; direct evolution . &quot;
a few years ago , the laser prize was given to the scientist shinya yamanaka for his research where he took an adult skin cell , a fibroblast , and by manipulating just four genes , the cell induced to return them to a pluripotent stem cell -- a cell is potentially able to become any cell in your body .
these changes are coming .
the same technology that the human insulin can produce in bacteria can make viruses that can not only be protected from themselves but can also be used for immunity to other viruses .
believe it or not , it &apos;s an experimental study in the gang of vaccine versus influenza , which has been grown in the cells of a tobacco plant .
can you imagine something good that comes out of tobacco ?
this is all reality today , and in the future , it &apos;s going to be much more possible .
there &apos;s a magic crowd . i don &apos;t know what it is .
so just imagine two other small changes .
you can change the cells in your body , but what if you could change the cells in your descendants ?
what if you could change the sperm and the eggs or the newly fertilized egg to give your children a better chance for a healthier life -- eliminating diabetes , eliminating the hemophila , reducing the risk of cancer ?
who doesn &apos;t want healthier kids ?
and then the analytical technology , the same engine of science that can allow the change to prevent disease , could also allow us to adopt super-attributes , hyper-capacity -- the better memory .
why don &apos;t we have the capacity for a ken jennings hben , especially if you can expand it with the next generation of the watson machine ?
why not have the fast muscle fibers that will allow you to run faster and longer ?
why no longer live ?
these will be irresistible .
and if we &apos;re in a place where we can pass it on to the next generation , and we can adopt the attributes that we want , we will be transformed from old style evolution to neo-evolution .
i &apos;m pretty sure that we &apos;ve been missing this point for a long time at the selection of our public good .
we &apos;re going to have a process that &apos;s usually going to take maybe 100,000 years , and we can compress it to a thousand years -- and maybe even the next 100 years .
these are decisions your grandchildren need to deal with , or your grandchildren .
do we use these decisions to form a society that &apos;s better , that &apos;s more successful , that &apos;s more friendly ?
or will we selectively choose different attributes that we want for some of us and not for some of us ?
are we going to have a society that is more dense and uniform , or are we going to be more robust and more diverse ?
these are the kinds of questions we need to face .
and the deepest of all , will we ever be able to develop the wisdom and the wisdom that we will need to make these decisions ?
in the good or the bad , and sooner than you might think , these decisions will be on us .
thank you .
i want you to imagine something now , a portable robot that gives you overhuman skills , or another that helps wheelchair users stand up and go .
now , as a basic question -- i &apos;m almost done -- as a basic question , the question of thinking about this , what &apos;s enabling all of this choice in the industrialized societies is the material of wealth .
we at berkeley bionics call these robots exoskeletons .
they &apos;re not anything but something that they &apos;re putting on in the morning that will give them extra strength and that will further increase their speed and that will help them keep their balance , for example .
that &apos;s actually the real melting of human and machine .
but not only that -- they merge and connect with the universe and other devices out there .
it &apos;s not just a crazy idea .
now to show you what we &apos;re working on , we &apos;re starting to talk about the american soldier , who &apos;s carrying about 100 pounds on his back on average , and it &apos;s a request for them to carry more equipment .
of course , this leads to some major complications -- spinal injuries , 30 percent of them -- chronic spinal injuries .
so we thought that we would take this challenge and create an exoskeleton that would help to deal with this problem .
so let me introduce you to hulc now -- or the human universal load carrier .
soldat : with the hulc exoskeleton , i can carry 200 pounds across different terrain for many hours .
there are many places in the world , and we &apos;ve heard about many of you whose problem is not too big a choice .
his flexible design enables you to go deep , crawl , and execute highly agile movements .
it feels what i want to do , where i want to go and then increase my strength and resilience .
we &apos;re so far , with our industrial partner , to introduce this device , this new exoskeleton that year .
so it &apos;s true .
let &apos;s now take a look at wheelchair users , something that i &apos;m particularly passionate about .
there are 68 million people sitting in the wheelchair in the world .
that &apos;s about one percent of the population .
and that &apos;s actually a conservative estimate .
we &apos;re often talking about very young people with spinal cord injuries , who in the blossom of their lives -- 20s , &apos; 30s , &apos; 40s -- were hit by destiny , and the wheelchair is the only option .
but it &apos;s also about the aging population , whose number is multiplied .
their problem is that they have too little .
and pretty much the only option -- when it comes to a stroke , or other complications -- is the wheelchair .
and so , by the way , it &apos;s been 500 years since he , as i have to say , very successful introduction .
so we thought we could start writing a whole new chapter in mobility .
now , let me introduce you to elegs , which is carried by amanda boxtel , who , 19 years ago , had a spinal cord injury , which had the result that it could no longer run for 19 years and so far .
thank you .
as i said , amanda carries our elephant .
it has sensors .
his completely non-invasive sensors in the crutches that send signals back to our onboarding computer , which is attached to her back here .
here are also batteries , the motor engine is on its hips , as well as their knee joints that they &apos;re moving forward in this fairly smooth and very natural gait .
i was 24 years old , and i was in best form , when a monstrous purchase tree was paralyzing me as i was skiing .
so the things i &apos;m talking about are a strange problem of modern , rich , western societies .
in a fraction of a second , i lost every feeling and every movement below my basin .
not long after that , a doctor stepped into my hospital room , and he said , &quot; amanda , you &apos;ll never be able to go again . &quot;
and that was 19 years ago .
he &apos;s stealing every five hope from my consciousness .
adaptive technologies have enabled me since then to learn to ski again , climb and even ride with my hands .
but nothing was invented that would let me go , so far .
thank you .
as you can see , we have the technology , we have the platforms to meet and discuss with them .
it &apos;s in our hands , and we have all the potential here to change the lives of future generations -- not just for the soldiers , or for amanda here and all the wheelchair drivers , but for everyone .
thank you .
and what &apos;s so frustrating and angry : steve levitt yesterday told you about how this expensive and hard to install car seats . it &apos;s a waste of money .
at home in new york , i &apos;m the head of the development department of a nonprofit organization called robin hood .
if i don &apos;t fight poverty , i &apos;m fighting as a fireman &apos;s chief in a volunteer deletion on fire .
now , in our city , where volunteers were supporting a highly skilled professional fire department , you have to be on the brink spot pretty early to be able to interfere .
i remember my first fire .
i was the second volunteer in the fire , so i had a pretty good opportunity to be able to get in .
but it was still a race against the other volunteers to reach the main man in charge and figure out what our tasks would be .
when i found the main man , he had a very serious conversation with the owner who certainly had one of the worst days of her life .
it was in the middle of the night , and she was standing in the pajamas and barefoot under a umbrella in the rain as her house was standing in flames .
the other volunteer who had just arrived in front of me -- call him lex luther -- reached the main man first , and was asked to go to the house and save the owner &apos;s dog .
the dog ! i was linguistically envy .
they took shiny photos of themselves out of the air , which we would call friendly gestures , and they forgot that these people from the rainforest in their lives had never seen anything two-dimensional .
what i &apos;m telling you is that these expensive , complicated decisions -- it &apos;s not easy that they don &apos;t help .
there was a lawyer or a wealth administrator who could now tell people for the rest of his life that he was going to a burning house to save a living thing , just because he was five seconds faster than i was .
well , i was next .
the main man was waving me .
he said , &quot; bezos , you have to go to the house .
you &apos;ve got to go up , you &apos;ve got to go by the fire , and this woman &apos;s got to get some shoes . &quot;
i swear it .
now , not exactly what i had hoped to do , but i went -- the stairs up , down the hallway , past the &quot; real &quot; firemen , &quot; who were already already done with the deletion , pretty much , in the bedroom to get a pair of shoes .
i know what you &apos;re thinking , but i &apos;m not a hero .
i carried my prey back down , where i met my neat enemy at the front door and the beloved dog .
we took our estimates out to the owner of the house , where , not surprisingly , he got a lot more attention than mine .
they &apos;re even hurting .
a couple of weeks later , the firemen got a letter from the homeowner who thanked them for the brave use of saving their house .
one of the things that was pretty much estimated : somebody had even brought her a pair of shoes .
both in my profession at robin hood and in my side profession as a volunteer fireman , i am witnessed by generosity and kindness on a scale , but i also see the actions of the altruism and the mute of individuals .
and you know what i learned ?
they &apos;re all important .
so if i look around this room and i see people who have either achieved a remarkable success , or on their way there , i want to offer you the following memory : don &apos;t wait .
don &apos;t wait to make a difference in someone else &apos;s life until they reached their first million .
if you have something to give , now give it .
serve in a food kitchen , clean up a park in the neighborhood .
be a mentor .
they make it worse to stand there .
not every day will give us a chance to save a human life , but every day we have a chance to change one .
so get rid of it ; save the shoes .
thank you .
bruno guissani : mark , mark , come back .
thank you .
i &apos;m just coming back from a community that knows the secret of the progression of humanity .
a place where women are leading the prescription , with sex , and the game determines the day -- where fun is a serious issue .
and no , it &apos;s not burning man or san francisco .
ladies and gentlemen , their relationship .
this is the world of the wild bonobos in the ancient congo forest .
if something that enables the people of our society to make decisions about the societies in which people have made too little choice , not only would people &apos;s lives improve , but our dignity will be improved .
bonobos are our closest living relatives with chimpanzees .
that means we have a common ancestor , an evolutionary grandmother , who lived about six million years ago .
well , chimpanzees are known for their aggressivity .
but unfortunately , we &apos;ve emphasized this aspect of the narrative of human evolution .
but bonobos show us the other side of the medal .
while chimpanzees of big , frightening guys are led , the bonobo society is led by empowered females .
they &apos;ve really come up with something , because that leads to a very tolerant society where violence has not been observed so far .
but unfortunately , bonobos are least well known among primates .
they live in the deep depths of the congolese primeval , and they &apos;re very difficult to observe .
congo is a paradox -- a country of extraordinary biodiversity and beauty , but also the heart of darkness itself -- the place of a violent argument that has been ravaging for decades and almost as many lives as the first world war .
economists call this a pareto improvement application .
it &apos;s not surprising that this destruction also threatens the survival of the bonobos .
meat trade and the decline in the canopy causes you to not even fill a stadium with the remaining bonobos -- and even we &apos;re not sure to be honest .
and yet , in this country of violence and chaos , you can hear a hidden laugh that the trees are shaking .
who are these relatives ?
we know them as &quot; love of war , &quot; monkeys , because they have frequent sex , also bisexual sex , with changing partners , and rules like conflict and social issues .
i &apos;m not saying that &apos;s the answer to all humanitarian problems -- because the bonobos &apos; life is made up of more than the cama sutra .
bonobos -- like people -- love playing their lives long .
play is not just child games .
for us and it &apos;s play that is essential to the attachment of relationships and the care of tolerance .
and we learn the trust and the rules of the game .
income distribution will make everybody better -- not just the poor -- because all this big choice will plain us .
play enhances creativity and resilience , and it &apos;s all about making diversity -- diversity of interactions , diversity of behaviors , diversity of connections .
and if you watch bonobos play , you see the evolutionary origins of human salmon , dance and rituals .
play is the tickle that holds us together .
now , i don &apos;t know how they &apos;re playing , but i want to show you some unique footage just from the wild .
first of all , a ball game in bonobo-style -- and i don &apos;t think of football .
so here we see a young female and male in a tracking game .
look at what she &apos;s doing .
this could be the evolutionary origin of , &quot; she grabs it with the eggs . &quot;
just that i think he likes it , right ?
yeah !
finally , please read this cartoon , and , a highly developed person , says , &quot; ah ! what does this fish know ?
so sex games are common , both in bonobos and in humans .
and this video is really interesting , because it shows -- and this video is really interesting , because it shows the idea that you bring new elements into play with -- like the testicles -- and also , how the game requires both trust and promotes -- while at the same time , it &apos;s unprecedented fun .
but the game is a transducer .
play is a transducer , and it can take a lot of forms that some of them are a little bit more quiet , imaginative , curious -- maybe to rediscover the amazement .
and i want to show you , this is fuku , a young female , and she plays peaceful with water .
and i think , just like they do , we play sometimes alone , and we have lots of our inner and outer worlds .
and it &apos;s this playful curiosity that makes us explore and interact , and the unexpected connections that we form are the real nutrients of creativity .
this is just a little taste of the insights that bonobos give us in our past and present .
but they also remain a secret to our future , a future where we need to adapt to increased challenges , through greater creativity and printing , reinforcement cooperation .
the secret is that play is the key to these skills .
you don &apos;t know anything possible in this gold glass . &quot;
in other words , play is our adaptation joker .
in order to successfully adapt to an unstable world , we have to play .
but are we going to make the best out of our play drive ?
play is not silly .
it &apos;s essential .
for bonobos and people alike , life is not made of teeth and claws alone .
just when it hardly appears to be the most necessary game .
and so , my primate comrades , let &apos;s embrace this gift of evolution and play together , while we rediscover the creativity of the camera and the wonder .
thank you .
i want you to imagine two couples in the middle of 1979 , the same day , at the same moment , each one of them -- okay .
impoverished imagination , a short-sighted view of the world -- and that &apos;s the way i read it first .
so two pairs , every baby .
now , i don &apos;t want you to spend too much time imagining the creation , because if you think about the production all the time , you &apos;re not going to listen to me .
imagine that for a moment .
and in this scenario , imagine that , in one case , the sperm is wearing a y chomosom that hits the x chromosome of the egg .
and in the other case , the sperm carries a x chromosome that hits the x chromosome of the egg cell .
both of them are survivable , both of them light .
we &apos;ll come back to these people later .
most of my activities , i have two hats .
under a hat , i &apos;m involved in the history of anatomy .
i studied historian , and in this case , i study how people were dealing with anatomy -- that is human bodies , animal bodies -- how they were dealing with body fluids , with body concepts , how they thought about bodies .
but the more i thought about it , the more i got to the point that the fish knows something .
the other hat i wore in my work is the activist , as a patient lawyer -- or , as i sometimes say , as an impatient lawyer -- of people who are patients of doctors .
in this case , i &apos;ve been working with people who have body types , who are challenging social norms .
so , for example , i worked with people who are siamesian twins , two people in a body .
i worked with people with dwarfs -- people who were smaller than usual .
and very often , i &apos;ve been working with intersexual people whose gender is atypical -- so people who don &apos;t have the average male or female body types .
and as a general term , we can use the word &quot; intersexuality . &quot;
intersexuality is in many different forms .
i &apos;ll just give you a few examples of the possible sex varieties that are not the male or female standard .
in one case , you might have someone with an xy chromosomes base , and the y chomosoms gene makes the protogonads that we all have fetal stadium to grow up to testicles .
and that &apos;s why the testosterone is in the fetal stage of testosterone .
they raised these photographs from the forest floor , trying to see behind the face or the character , found nothing and concluded that these were business cards of the devil and killed the five missionary with the spear .
because the truth is that if you break the gold glass , so that everything is possible , you don &apos;t have freedom . you have paralysis .
but because this individual doesn &apos;t have the receptors to recognize the testosterone , the body doesn &apos;t respond to the testosterone .
and this is called androgen-receptor defect .
so a lot of testosterone , but not a reaction to that .
as a consequence , the body develops more to the typical female course .
when the child is born , she looks like a girl .
she &apos;s a girl . she &apos;s raised as a girl .
but it &apos;s mostly until you get to puberty and your breasts grow and develop , but you don &apos;t get your period until someone comes up with something else here .
and they do some tests , and they find that instead of ovarian sticks and uterus , they actually have testicles in them and they have a y chromosome .
and it &apos;s important to understand that you could actually think of this person as a male , but they &apos;re not really .
women , like men , have something in our bodies called adrenaline glands .
if you break the gold glass so that everything is possible , you reduce happiness .
they &apos;re in the back of our bodies .
and the side ones make androgens , which are virizing hormones .
most women , as i do -- i think they &apos;re a typical woman -- i don &apos;t really know my chromosomes , but i think i probably have the typical -- most women like me actually talk to androgens .
we produce androgen , and we respond to androgens .
the consequence is that someone like me actually has a brain that was exposed to more androgens than a woman who was born with testicles and has an androgen receptor defect .
so gender is really complicated ; intersexuals are not only in the middle of the spectrum of gender -- in a sense , they can be distributed across the whole range .
here &apos;s another example : a few years ago , i got the call from a 19 year-old man who was born a boy , he had a friend , he had sex with his girlfriend , he lived as a man , and he had just figured out that he had eggs and a uterus .
he had an extreme form of an innate side cattle hyperbladder .
he has xx chromosome , and in the womb , his side kidneys were so highly active that they basically created a male hormone environment .
and as a consequence , his genitals were mapped male , his brain was exposed to the more typical male part of the hormone spectrum .
they increase paralysis , and they reduce happiness .
and when he was born , he looked like a boy -- no one knew anything .
and it wasn &apos;t until he was 19 years old that he got enough medical problems , in fact , because he was intrinsically menstruating that the doctors found that he was female inside .
okay , just a quick example of a variation of intersexuality .
some people with xx chromosomes are developing something called ovotestis , which is covering ovarian tissue from testicular tissue .
we don &apos;t know exactly why this is happening .
so gender can occur in many different varieties .
the reason why children with this kind of body -- whether it &apos;s dwarf growing or siamesian twins , be it intersexually -- are often adapted to the norm by surgeons is not because it would be advantageous for their physical health .
in many cases , these people are completely healthy .
the reason why they &apos;re often used to different kinds of surgical interventions is because they threaten our social categories .
typically , our system is based on the idea that a particular anatomic expression comes with a particular identity .
everybody needs a gold glass .
so we have the concept that to be a woman is to have a female identity , to be a black person , which is , supposedly , to have an african anatomy in terms of its own story .
so we have this horribly simplistic idea .
and when we &apos;re faced with a body that is actually something very different for us , it confuses us in terms of these categorizations .
so we have a lot of romantic ideas about individualism in our culture .
and our nation is really based on a very romantic concept of individualism .
now you can imagine how amazing it is when children are born , the two people in a body .
where i had experienced most of the excitement recently was the south african runner caster semenya last year , whose gender was challenged at the leichatlethic world cup in berlin .
a lot of journalists called me with the question , &quot; what are you going to do that tells us whether caster semenya is female or male ? &quot;
and i had to explain to the journalists that there &apos;s no test .
we now know that gender is complicated enough that we have to admit that nature doesn &apos;t draw a line between male and female for us , or between male and intersexually and sexually and intersexually ; in fact , we &apos;re the one that pretends to be the line as natural .
this is almost entirely confined -- possibly for the fish , definitely for us .
so we have a situation like this , where , as we continue to progression our science , we have to admit that these categories that we thought were stable anatomic categories , which made very simple arrangements to create permanent identity categories are much more disruptive than we thought .
and that &apos;s not just about gender .
it &apos;s also true of race , which turns out to be much more complicated than our terminology has approved .
in our views , we get into all sorts of uncomfortable areas .
we &apos;re starting , for example , to the fact that we have at least 95 percent of our dna in common with chimpanzees .
what are we going to do with the fact that we &apos;re different from them just by a few nucleotides ?
as we keep moving our science forward , we &apos;re getting into a zone of discomfort , where we have to recognize that the simplistic categories that we &apos;ve had are probably too simple .
we see this in all sorts of different parts of human life .
one of the areas in which we see this as the beipiel , in our culture today , in the united states today , are the fighting over the beginning and the end of life .
we have difficult conversations about what point a body becomes a human , so that it has a different right than fetal life .
but being a metaphorical goldfish glass is a recipe for misery , and , i suspect , disaster .
we have very difficult arguments today -- maybe not as public as in medicine -- about the question of when someone &apos;s dead .
our ancestors never had that hard to fight with the question of when someone was dead .
they &apos;ve been holding a feather under their nose , and when they moved , they haven &apos;t buried them yet .
when it was no longer moving , they were buried .
but today we &apos;re in a situation where we humans want to take vital organs and plant them to other people .
and as a result , we start to fight with the really difficult question of when someone is dead , and that brings us into a really difficult situation where we don &apos;t have as simple categories as we used to .
now you might think that the whole collapse of categories would make someone like me really happy .
i &apos;m politically progressive , i &apos;m defending people with unusual bodies , but i have to admit it makes me nervous .
to realize that these categories are really much more insecure than we thought , it makes me excited .
and it makes me excited about the consideration of democracy .
thank you very much .
so to tell you about this tension , i have to first know that i &apos;m a big fan of the founding fathers .
i know they were racial , i know they were sexist , but they were great .
i think they were so brave and so strong , and so radical , in what they did , that every few years i would find myself looking at the narrow musical 1776 , and it &apos;s not because of the music that &apos;s absolutely forgotten .
it &apos;s because of what happened in 1776 with the founding fathers .
the founding fathers , in my view , were the original anatomic activists , and that &apos;s why .
what they proved was an anatomic concept , and they replaced it by another that was radical and beautiful , and 200 years for us .
as you all remember , our founding fathers rejected the concept of monarchy , and the monarchy was basically based on a very simplistic concept of anatomy .
the rulers of the old world had no concept based on dna , but they had a concept of birth rights .
they had a concept of blue blood .
they were the idea that people who had political power should have this political power because of the inherited bloodline from grandfather to son and so on .
you know , i &apos;ve talked about some of these projects before , about the human genome and what that might mean , and about the discovery of new groups of genes .
the founding fathers proved this idea and replaced it by a new anatomical concept , and this concept said that all humans were created in the same way .
they niveled the playground , and they decided that anatomically , looking at the commonalities , they didn &apos;t count the differences . and that was very radical .
now they did this in part because they were part of an enlightenment system where two things grew together .
democracy grew , but at the same time , science grew .
if you look at the story of founding fathers , it &apos;s clear that many of them were very interested in science , and they were interested in a concept of a natural world .
they went away from explanations of supernatural species , and they showed things like a supernatural concept of power , where the transmission is based on a very vague concepts of birth law .
they moved to a natural concept .
and for example , if you look at the declaration of independence , they talk about nature and the god of nature .
they &apos;re not talking about god and the nature of god .
they &apos;re talking about the power of nature to tell us who we are .
in fact , we &apos;re starting from a new point : we &apos;ve digitized biology , and now we &apos;re trying to get from the digital code into a new phase of biology by designing and building new life .
and as part of that , they gave us a concept that was about anatomic commonalities .
and so they really wonderfully prepared the future civil rights movement .
they didn &apos;t think about it that way , but what they did for us was great .
so what happened years after that ?
for example , women who were using voting , the concept of founding fathers , which says that anatomic commonness is more important than the anatomic difference , and said , &quot; that we have a uterus and eggs as a difference , we don &apos;t matter enough that we shouldn &apos;t have the right to vote , the right to full citizenship , the right to own , etc . , etc . &quot;
and women argued that successfully .
next came the successful civil rights movement , where we saw people like soap truth , who spach on it , &quot; am i not a woman ? &quot;
we find men in the marching rows of the citizenship movement saying , &quot; i &apos;m a man . &quot;
again , people of different skin color that are based on anatomical differences before anatomic differences , again , successfully .
we see the same with the disabled legal movement .
we &apos;ve always tried to ask meaningful questions .
of course , the problem is that , as we start looking at all the similarities , we have to start asking questions about why we keep certain separations .
well , i want to keep certain separations , anatomically , in our culture .
for example , i don &apos;t want to give a fish the same rights as a human .
i don &apos;t want to say that we should take away from the anatomy .
i don &apos;t want to say that five year-olds should have the right to give their understanding of sex or marry .
so there are some anatomic separations that make sense to me , and that i think we should keep .
but the challenge is to try to figure out which one it is and why we keep it , and whether it makes sense .
so let &apos;s go back to these two creatures that have been launched at the beginning of the talk .
we have two creatures , both in the mid-1979 on exactly the same day .
let &apos;s imagine that one of them , maria , was born three months earlier , so she was born on june 1 , 1980 .
we go through initiation rituals .
but the waorani didn &apos;t just kill the outsiders with the spear .
what is life ? it &apos;s something that i think a lot of biologists have tried to understand and do on different levels .
heinrich , on the other hand , is born to the birthday , so he &apos;s born on march one , 1980 .
just because of the fact that maria was born three months ago , it takes three months before heinrich -- the right to engage in sex , to choose the right to drink .
heinrich has to wait for all of this , not because he actually has a different biological age , just because of the time of his birth .
we find other features about what their rights are .
heinrich , because you think he &apos;s male -- although i didn &apos;t tell you that he &apos;s with xy -- because you assume that he &apos;s male , he can now be pulled in , which maria doesn &apos;t have to worry about .
maria , in all states , can &apos;t perceive the same right that heinrich has in all states , and that &apos;s the right to marry .
heinrich can marry a woman in every state , but maria can only marry a woman in a few states today .
so we have these permanent anatomical categories that are problematic and questionable in many ways .
and for me , the question is , what are we going to do , because our science makes such progress in the anatomy area , that we have to get to the point where we have to admit that a democracy based on anatomy could fall apart ?
i don &apos;t want to give up the science , but at the same time , it feels like sometimes science is on its own .
we tried different approaches to simplify it down to the minimal components .
so where do we go ?
it seems like our culture is taking a kind of pragmatic posture : &quot; well , we have to pull a line somewhere , so we pull it somewhere . &quot;
but a lot of people get caught in a very strange position .
so for example , texas , at one point , decided that to marry a man means you don &apos;t have a y chromosome , and to marry a woman means you have a y chromosome .
now in practice , people are not being tested on their chromosome .
but it &apos;s also very bizarre because of the story that i told you about the androgen receptor defect at the beginning .
if we look at one of the founding fathers of modern democracy , dr. martin luther king , he offers us in his &quot; i have a dream of speaking &quot; a kind of solution .
he says we should judge people not for &quot; their skin color , &quot; but for the quality of their character , &quot; and goes beyond anatomy .
and i want to say , &quot; yeah , that sounds like a really good idea . &quot;
but how do you do that in practice ?
we digitized almost 20 years . when we sequenced the human genome , the shift from the analog world of biology to the digital world of computers .
how do you judge people because of their characteristics ?
i also want to point out that i &apos;m not sure that we should distribute rights to people that way , because i have to admit that i know a series of golden retriever that probably make social benefits more than some people i know .
i want to say that i probably know some bright labradordogs that are more capable of making more functional , more intelligent and richer decisions about their sexual relationships than some 40-year-olds i know .
so how do we operate the question about the characteristics of character ?
it turns out to be really difficult .
and part of me is , what if the content of a personality was something that could be machine readable in the future -- with the fmri visible ?
do we really want to go that way ?
i &apos;m not sure where we &apos;re going .
what i know is that it seems really important to think about the idea that the united states is leading to worry about questions of democracy .
in our effort for democracy , we &apos;ve done our thing really well , and i think we &apos;d do our thing well in the future .
now we &apos;re trying to ask , can we regenerate life , or can we create new life , from this digital universe ?
we don &apos;t have the situation , like it is in iran , where a man who feels sexually attracted to other men is punished with death , unless he &apos;s willing to undergo a gender transformation , in which case he can stay alive .
these kinds of states don &apos;t exist with us .
i &apos;m glad to say that we don &apos;t have these states -- a surgeon i spoke to a few years ago who had brought some siamesian twins to separate them , partly to make a name .
but when i phones with him , and asked him why he made these interventions -- they were highly risky surgeries -- his answer was that in his country , these children would be very poorly treated , and so he had to do it .
i said to him , &quot; well , did you consider political asylum instead of having an operation to separate it ? &quot;
the united states has incredible opportunities to allow people to be who they are , without having to change around the state .
so i think we have to be leadership .
well , just to conclude , i want to notice that i &apos;ve talked a lot about fathers .
and i want to think about the possibility of what democracy might look like , or what might have looked like , if we had more involved the mothers .
and i want to say something that &apos;s a little bit radical for a feminist , which is , i think , that there might be different kinds of insights that come from different kinds of anatomy , especially when people apply a group thinking .
this is the map of a small organism , mycoplasma geitalium , which has the smallest genome of a species that can replicate itself in the lab , and we &apos;ve tried to do that with a smaller genome .
for years , because i was interested in intersexuality , i &apos;ve been also interested in gender research .
and one of the things that i found really interesting is the difference between men and women in terms of how they think and act in the world .
what we &apos;ve learned from cross-cultural studies is that women , on average -- not each , but on average -- tend to have complex social relations and care for people who are vulnerable within the group to give a lot of attention .
and that &apos;s why , when we think about it , we have an interesting situation in front of us .
years ago , when i was a graduate student , one of my graduate students asked me , who knew my interest in feminism -- i looked at myself as a feminist , doing it still -- a really curious question .
he said , &quot; tell me what &apos;s female about feminism . &quot;
and i thought , &quot; well , that &apos;s the dumbest question i &apos;ve ever heard .
feminism is about solving stereotypes about gender , so feminism is not female .
but the more i thought about his question , the more i thought there could be something female in feminism .
that is to say that there could be something on average , which makes women &apos;s brains different from male brains , which makes us more aware of highly complex social relations and more careful for the protective needs .
we &apos;ve managed to get about a hundred genes from the 500 or so that are here .
so where the founding fathers were extremely concerned about how individuals could be protected from the state , it &apos;s possible that if we brought more mothers into this concept , we would get more of a concept of , not just how to protect them , but how to care for each other .
and maybe it &apos;s where we need to go in the future , if we do democracy beyond anatomy -- to think less about the individual body in terms of identity , and to think more about relationships .
so that if we as people try to make a more perfect connection , we think about what we can do for each other .
thank you .
i &apos;m jessi , and this is my suitcase .
but before i show you what i have in it , i &apos;m going to make a very public confession , and that &apos;s : i &apos;m obsessed with outfits .
i love to have , at every opportunity , a different colorful , crazy outfit , and also to photograph and blog lately .
but i don &apos;t buy anything new .
i get all my clothes from second hand on flew markets and second-hand shops .
ooh , thank you .
but if we look at this metabolic map , which is very simple , compared to ours , trust me , that &apos;s simple , but if we look at all the genes that we can eliminate one after the other , it &apos;s very unlikely that this would lead to a living cell .
second-hand shopping allows me to reduce the impact of my guarderobe on the environment and also the purse on my purse .
i meet all kinds of great people ; my dollars usually serve for a good purpose ; i look pretty unique ; and it makes shopping for my own personal quest .
i mean , what am i going to find today ?
will it be my size ?
am i going to like the color ?
will it cost less than 20 dollars ?
if all the answers are yes , i feel like i &apos;ve won .
i come back to my suitcase , and i &apos;ll tell you what i &apos;ve been packing here at ted for this exciting week .
i mean , what does anybody bring with so many outfits ?
so i &apos;m going to show you exactly what i brought .
so we decided that the only way to go forward is to actually synthesize this chromosome , which allows us to vary the individual components and ask some of these fundamental questions .
i brought seven underpants , and that &apos;s all .
underpants for exactly a week are all i did in my suitcase .
i woke up that i would find everything else i might want to wear if i first came to palm springs .
and since you didn &apos;t hear me as the woman who &apos;s walking around here at ted in her underwear -- that means i found a few things .
and i really want to show you my outfits this week .
does that sound good ?
while i &apos;m doing that , i &apos;m also going to give you some of the lessons that i believe it or not , from these adventures , have learned nothing new .
let &apos;s start with sunday .
i call this the bright tiger .
you don &apos;t have to spend a lot of money looking great .
and so we started with the question , can we synthesize a chromosome ?
you can almost always look great for less than 50 dollars .
this whole outfit , including the jacket , cost me 55 , and it was the most expensive piece that i carried all week .
monday : color is something powerful .
it &apos;s almost physiologically impossible to be miserable when you &apos;re wearing bright red pants .
if you &apos;re happy , you attract other happy people .
tuesday : adaptation is totally overrated .
i &apos;ve spent a lot of my life trying to be myself and adapt at the same time .
just be who you are .
if you surround yourself with the right people , you &apos;re not just going to understand it , you &apos;re going to appreciate it .
wednesday : embrace your inner child .
does it allow the chemistry to create these really big molecules , which has never been done before ?
sometimes people tell me i looked like i was playing clothes , or i remember them in their seven-year-olds .
and i like to smile and say , &quot; thank you . &quot;
thursday : confidence is the key .
if you think you look good , it &apos;s almost safe .
and if you think you don &apos;t look good in something , you &apos;re probably right .
i grew up with a mother who taught me that day after day .
but it wasn &apos;t until i turned 30 that i really understood what that means .
and i &apos;m going to summarize that for you for a moment .
if you believe you &apos;re inside and outside a wonderful person , there &apos;s nothing you can &apos;t wear .
so there &apos;s no excuse for someone in this audience .
they went through each other .
and if we can do that , can we start the chromosome ?
we should be able to rock everything we want .
thank you .
friday : a universal truth -- five words : golden pailletes fit to everything .
and finally , saturday : developing a unique , personal style is a great way to tell the world about you without having to say a word .
it was proven to me over and over again , when people came up to me this week , just because of what i was wearing , and i had great conversations .
obviously , this is not going to fit all in my tiny suitcase .
so before i go home to brooklyn , i &apos;m going to donate it all again .
because the lesson that i &apos;m trying to learn this week is that it &apos;s okay to let go .
i don &apos;t have to stick these things emotionally , because right around the corner there will always be another crazy , colorful , shining outfit waiting for me if i have a little love in my heart and search it .
thank you very much .
a chromosome , by the way , is just a piece of induced chemical material .
thank you .
good afternoon , everybody together .
i have something here that i want to show you .
think of this as a visual point , as a flying image .
this is what we call in our lab , perceptual design .
let me tell you a little bit about it .
now , if you take this picture -- i &apos;m originally italian , and every boy in italy is growing up with this image in his room , but the reason i &apos;m showing you this is because there &apos;s something very interesting happening in the formula 1 in the past few decades .
some time ago , if you wanted to win a formula one , you took your budget and you put your money on a good driver and a good car .
and if the car and the driver were good enough , they won the race .
now , today , if you want to win a race , you actually need something like this -- something that &apos;s monitoring the car in real time , has a few thousand sensors that are giving the information from the car , giving that information on to the system , and then processing it , and then using it to send back this car decisions and change things in real time as information is collected .
our steps in digitizing life were exponential .
this is what you would call , in engineering teams , a real-time control system .
and basically , it &apos;s a system that &apos;s made up of two parts -- a perceiving part and a reacting arrow .
what &apos;s interesting today is that real-time control systems are starting to emerge in our lives .
our cities , in the last few years , have just been equipped with networks and electronics .
they become free computers .
and as computers in the open , they start reacting in a different way , and they &apos;re perceived and driven .
when we &apos;re building cities , it &apos;s actually a big deal .
just by the way , i want to mention that cities are only two percent of the world &apos;s land , but 50 percent of the world &apos;s population live there .
they &apos;re 75 percent of the energy consumption -- they cause up to 80 percent of the co2 emissions .
so if we do something with the cities , that &apos;s a big deal .
our ability to write genetic code has been evolving very slowly , but it has been increasing , and our last point would now be to put on an exponential curve .
beyond the cities , all of that sensation and drive into objects of everyday life .
this is from an exhibition that organizes paola antonelli for moma later in the year , during the summer .
it &apos;s called &quot; jump with me . &quot;
now , all of our objects , our environment , are starting to speak back to us .
in a sense , it &apos;s almost as if every atom is out there becoming both a sensor and a driver .
and this is radically changing the interaction that we humans have with our environment outside .
in a way , it &apos;s almost as if the old dream of michelangelo ...
you know , when michelangelo shaped moses , it means he ended up taking the hammer and throwing it on moses -- in fact , you can still see a little spot underneath -- and said , &quot; perché non parli ? why don &apos;t you talk ? &quot;
well , today , our environment begins for the first time to answer us .
i &apos;m just going to show you a few examples -- again , with the idea of perceiving and driving our environment .
we started it 15 years ago .
let &apos;s start with that .
now the first project i want to show you is actually one of the first of our labs .
it was born four and a half years ago in italy .
and what we did was we actually used a new kind of network that was used all over the world -- this is a mobile phone network -- and using anonymous and aggregated information from this network that &apos;s being collected from the operator to understand how the city works .
the summer was a happy summer -- 2006 .
it was when italy won the football world cup .
some of you will remember it was when italy was playing against france , and then at the end of the day , zidane , the head shock .
and anyway , italy finally won .
now look at what happened that day , just watching the activity that happens in the network .
here you see the city .
it actually took a few years to start with a bioethical review before we did the first experiments .
you see in the middle the colosseum , the tiber .
in the morning , before the game .
you see the timeline on the top .
early afternoon , people here and there , who are calling and moving .
the game starts -- silence .
france makes a gate . italy makes a gate .
half-time , people make a short call , go to the toilet .
second half-time . end of normal time .
first extension , second .
zidane , in a moment of the head shock .
it turns out that dna synthesization is very difficult .
italy wins . yeah .
well , that night , everybody went to the center to celebrate .
they saw the big impact .
the next day , everybody went to the center to meet the team of seven and the prime minister at the same time .
and then everybody went down .
you see the picture of the place about co massimo , where , since the roman time , people go to celebrate -- to have a big party , and you see the impact at the end of the day .
now , this is just one example of how we can feel the city today in a way that we couldn &apos;t do a few years ago .
so , very quickly , another example of feeling : this is not about people , but about things that we use and consume .
well , today we know everything about where our stuff comes from .
this is a map that shows you all the chips that make up a mac computer , how they came together .
there are tens of thousands of machines around the world that can make little bits of dna , 30 to 50 letters long , but it &apos;s a degenerative process , so the longer you make a piece , the more errors happen .
but we know very little about where things go .
so we actually designed some little markers in this project to track the garbage as it goes through the system .
so we started with some volunteers who helped us , a little over a year ago , in seattle , to mark the things that they were throwing away -- different kinds of things , as you can see -- things that they would throw away anyway .
then we have the little chips , the little brands , glued on the trash and started tracking it .
here are the results that we just got .
from seattle ...
after a week .
with this information , we realized that there are a lot of inefficient things in the system .
we can actually do the same things with less energy .
the data was not available before .
so we had to develop a new method where we could put these little bits together and correct the mistakes .
but this is what happens to a lot of unuseful transportation and complicated things .
but the other thing is that we believe that every day we see that the cup that we throw away is not just disappearing , that it &apos;s still somewhere on the planet .
and the plastic bottle that we throw away every day is still there .
and if we showed that to people , we can make a change in behavior .
so this is the reason for this project .
my colleague at mit , assaf biderman , could tell you much more about this and the many other wonderful things you can perceive , but i &apos;d like to talk about the second part that we discussed at the beginning , and that &apos;s the emphasis of our environment .
and the first project is something we did a few years ago in zaragoza , spain .
it started with a mayor question who came to us and said that spain and south europe have a beautiful tradition to use in public places as part of architecture .
and the question was : how could you connect technology , new technology ?
and one of the ideas that was found at mit in a workforce was , imagine these tubes , and valves , magnetic valves , valves that open and close .
this was our first attempt , starting with the digital information , the phi x 174 genome .
they &apos;re doing something like a water curtain with data points of water .
if these images fall down , they can write on them , they can display patterns , images , text .
and you can approach it , and it will open up to jump through it , as you can see in this picture .
well , we introduced the mayor .
he loved it very much .
and we got the assignment to design a building in the expo .
we called it the digital water pavillion .
the whole building was made of water .
there are no doors or windows , but if you approach it , it will open and let it open .
the roof was covered in water as well .
54 percent of the deaths happened by drilling through .
it &apos;s a little virus that kills bacteria .
and if it &apos;s windy , if you want to reduce the syringes , you can actually let the roof down .
or you could close the building , and the whole architecture , like in this case , you know , this days , when you drive down the roof , you get pictures of people who were there and say , &quot; you &apos;ve destroyed the building . &quot;
no , they didn &apos;t destroy the building , it &apos;s just that architecture almost disappears .
here &apos;s how the building works .
you see the person who &apos;s wondering what &apos;s going on inside .
and here you see me when i was trying to test the sensors that opened the water , not to get wet .
now , i should tell you what happened one night when all the sensors stopped working .
but actually , that night , it was a much greater fun .
all the kids from zaragoza came to the building , because the way they played with the building was very different .
no longer a building that would open to let them open , but a building that still had breaks and holes in the water , you had to jump now without getting wet .
we made little pieces , we made a error correction , and we had a dna molecule of about 5,000 letters .
and that was , for us , very exciting , because as architects , engineers , as designers , we always think about how the people who use things that we design .
but the reality is always unpredictable .
and that &apos;s the beauty of creating things that are used and interacting with people .
so here &apos;s a picture of the building with the physical imagery , the imagery of water and the projections on it .
and this is what made us think about the following project that i &apos;m going to show you now .
imagine these images could really start to fly .
imagine if you could have little helicopters flying through the air , and each of them with a little plot of different light -- almost like a cloud that can move through the room .
here &apos;s the video .
imagine a helicopter , like the one you saw before , that moves with others , completely synchronized .
you can have this cloud .
the exciting phase came when we took this piece of induced chemical and put it into a bacterium , and the bacteria started reading the genetic code and made viral particles .
you can have a kind of flexible screen or display , like this -- a smooth formation in two dimensions .
or irregular in three dimensions , where what changes is the light , not the position of the images .
they can play with different species .
imagine the screen could just appear in different formats or sizes , in different resolution .
but then it could only be a 3d cloud of imagery that you can go through and move through , that you can look at from many , many directions .
here you see a real flyfire-controlling device coming down to form a common v as it used to be .
when you turn on the light , it looks like this , so the way we saw it before .
imagine that every single person is being driven by people .
it could have a impulse from every single point that comes from people , from people &apos;s movements , or something like that .
i want to show you something very first here .
the viral particles were then released from the cells and came back and killed e. coli .
we worked with roberto bolle , one of the best ballet dancers of our time -- the étoile at the metropolitan theater in new york and the scale in milan -- we took his movements in 3d to use them as a impulse for flyfire .
here you see roberto dancing .
on the left-hand side , you see the images , the various captured impressions .
it &apos;s also a real-time 3d scan and a motion recording .
so that you can understand the whole movement .
you can do that all the time .
but then once we have all the images , they can play with it and play with color and gravity and motion .
we want to use that as a possible impulse for the flyfire .
i want to show you the latest project that we &apos;re working on .
it &apos;s something we &apos;re working on for the london olympics .
i talked to the oil industry recently , and they said they were doing this model .
it &apos;s called the cloud -- the cloud .
the idea is , again , imagine that again , we engage people to do something and to change the environment -- almost what we call the cloud movement , how to move a scheme , but with a cloud .
imagine that anyone can give a little donation for a picture .
i think that the remarkable thing that &apos;s happened over the last few years , which is that we &apos;ve moved from a physical to a digital world .
this has digitized everything , knowledge , and it makes it available through the internet .
today , for the first time -- and the campaign obamas has shown this -- we can move from the digital world , from the self-organizing forces of networks to the physical world .
this can be , in our case , that we use it to design and create a symbol .
that means something that &apos;s built in the city .
but tomorrow , to face the next challenges -- think about climate change or co2 emissions -- how can we move from the digital world to the physical world ?
so the idea is that we actually involve the people in which they &apos;re collectively doing things .
they laughed more than you do here .
the cloud is again a cloud of imagery , in the same way that a real cloud is a cloud of particles .
and these particles are water , while our cloud is a cloud of images .
it &apos;s a physical structure in london , but with visual points .
they can move inside and do different kinds of experiences .
you can actually look at it from the bottom , share the most important moments for olympia in 2012 and beyond , and use it as a kind of connection to the community .
so both the physical cloud in the sky and something that you can go to the top , like london &apos;s new mountain summit .
you can go in .
and a kind of digital light tower at night -- but as the most important , a new kind of experience for anyone who wants to go to the top .
thank you .
as an artist , i really care about the relationship .
so we think that this is a situation in software that can actually build your own hardware in a biological system .
through my work , i &apos;m trying to express that people are not separated from nature and that everything is connected .
the first time i was in antarctica , almost 10 years ago , where i saw my first iceberg .
i was struck by awe .
my heart raced , i was dizzy while i was trying to grab what was in front of me .
the icebergs around me were racing about 60 feet out of the water , and i could only wonder that this was a snowflake on another snowflake , year after year .
ice mountains are born as a calf of a glacier or by breaking out of ice sheets .
each iceberg has its own individual personality .
they interact with their environment clearly and their experiences .
some of them refuse to give up and cling to the bitter end , while others don &apos;t stop and collapse dramatically in a case of dramatic passion .
if you look at an iceberg , it &apos;s easy to think that they &apos;re isolated , separated and , just as we humans often see each other .
but we wanted to go even further . we wanted to build a whole bacterial chromosome , and it had more than 580,000 letters of genetic code , and so we thought , we &apos;re going to build it in cassette tapes of the size of the virus that we could vary the size of the cassets to understand what the individual components of a living cell are .
but the truth is far from it .
as an iceberg melts , i breathe its temporary atmosphere .
as the iceberg melts , it releases mineral rich drinking water that feeds a lot of life forms .
i take my footage of these iceberg mountains as if i were to make portraits of my ancestors , knowing that they exist in these individual moments from this way , and will never exist again .
it &apos;s not a death when they melt ; it &apos;s not an end , it &apos;s a continuation of their path along the life cycle .
part of the ice in the iceberg that i &apos;m photographing is very young -- a few thousand years old .
and part of the ice is more than 100,000 years old .
the last pictures i &apos;d like to show you are an iceberg that i photographed in kekertsuatsiak in greenland .
very rarely , you &apos;re actually witnessing a rolling iceberg .
here you see it .
design is the key , and if you want to start with digital information in the computer , this digital information really has to be error .
on the left you see a little boat .
that &apos;s about five feet long .
please pay attention to the shape of the iceberg and where it is on the water line .
you can see here , he &apos;s starting to roll , and the boat has moved to the other side , the man is standing there .
this is the average size of a greenland iceberg .
it &apos;s about 120 feet out of the water , or 40 meters .
and this video is real time .
and just like this , the iceberg shows you a different page of his personality .
thank you .
my life is really extraordinarily blessed by working on some amazing projects .
when we first sequenced the genome in 1995 , the error rate was one mistake per 10,000 base pairs .
but the coolest thing i &apos;ve ever worked on is this guy .
his name is tempt .
tempt was one of the leading graffiti artists of the &apos; 80s .
then , one day , he came back from walking and said , &quot; dad , my legs cribble . &quot;
and that was the outbreak of that as well .
tempt is completely paralyzed today .
he can only use his eyes .
i was faced with him .
i have a company that makes design and animations , so graffiti is inevitably a complex part of what we &apos;re admiring and paying attention to in the art world .
so we decided to support tony -- tempt -- and his thing .
we followed geneaology eight generations back , and we found two cases of a natural death , and when we asked people about it , they admitted that one of the people had become so old that he died because of his age , and we were still killing him with the spear .
we found 30 errors when we did the original sequence , if we had never used the original sequence , it would never have been possible to go up .
i met with his father and his brother and said , &quot; we &apos;re going to give you this money .
what are you going to do with this ? &quot;
and his brother said , &quot; i just want to talk to tony again .
i just want to go back to him , and i said , &quot; wait a minute , isn &apos;t that -- i saw stephen hawking -- can &apos;t all the paralyzed people communicate with these devices ? &quot;
and he said , &quot; no , only if you &apos;re a higher social class and you have remarkable insurance , you can really do that .
normal people are not accessible to these devices . &quot;
and i said , &quot; how do you communicate ? &quot;
did anybody see the movie &quot; butterfly and dive bell ? &quot;
that &apos;s how they communicate -- that &apos;s how their fingers walk .
i was like , &quot; very archaic , how can that be ? &quot;
part of the design is to make pieces that are 50 letters long and that have to overlap with other 50-letter pieces to build smaller sub-units to fit them together .
so i came up with the need to just put a check , and instead i put a check that i didn &apos;t have the slightest idea of how to fix it .
i committed to the place and to his brother and his father -- saying , &quot; well , my proposal is this : tony &apos;s going to talk , we &apos;re going to get him a device , and we &apos;re going to find a way to make his art again .
because it &apos;s a farce that someone who &apos;s carrying all this stuff can &apos;t communicate . &quot;
so i spoke at a conference a few months later .
i met these people from grl , graffiti research lab , and they have a technology that allows them to project a light on any surface and then draw it with a laser pointer that will only register the negative surface .
so they move around and they make art installations like this .
they say that all the things that are being shown up there are going to follow a life cycle .
it starts with gender , and then the inoculations come , and then the bush publishing and last , people actually do art .
but there was always a life cycle in their presentations .
so i went home , and i ate with my wife at night , and i told her about everything , and we thought , &quot; well , for a second , if there &apos;s this technology that you can use to control things , we should find a way to control a laser so that tempt can control a laser , so that he can do graffiti again , that would be great . &quot;
we &apos;ve built unique elements here .
that was the beginning of the journey .
and about two years later , about a year later , after a lot of organization and a lot of things , we &apos;ve achieved some things .
first of all , we &apos;ve got the insurance of the doors , and we &apos;ve actually got a device for tempt that he can communicate with -- a stephen hawking machine .
that was incredible .
and he &apos;s really extremely funny -- i call him yoda , because you talk to him , or you get an email , and you think , &quot; i &apos;m so unworthy , this guy &apos;s incredible . &quot;
we also flew seven programmers from all over the world -- literally from all the corners of the world -- home to us .
my wife , my children and i have moved to the garage , and these hackers and programmers and conspiracy theorists and anarchists have taken over our house .
a lot of our friends thought we were pretty stupid to do that , and we came back and all the images on the walls would be graffitis .
but for over two weeks , we programmed , we went to the beach promenade in venice , my kids were involved , my dog , and we created this .
it &apos;s called eyewriter , and you can see the description .
you may have heard that we built watermarks .
this is a cheap sunglasses that we bought on the beach promenade of venice , a little bit of copper wire and a few things from the construction market and the electronics trade .
we took a ps3 camera , we put it apart , we put it on a led light , and now we have a device that &apos;s free -- you can build it yourself , we put the code for free , you can download the software for free .
so we &apos;ve created a device that &apos;s completely free of constraints .
no insurance can make up .
no hospital .
now any paralyzed can actually communicate or draw with your eyes alone .
thank you .
thank you very much . that was incredible .
so at the end of the two weeks , we went back to the tempt room .
i love this picture , because it &apos;s the room of somebody else , and that &apos;s his room .
think about it : we have a four-letter code : a , c , g and t .
now there &apos;s all this rumble before the big unveiling .
and after over a year of planning , two weeks of programming , nudelparties and searched nights , tony drew back after seven years .
and this is an amazing picture , because this is his life support system , and he sees beyond his life support system .
we hooked his bed so that he can see out .
we set up a projector against a wall of the parking lot in front of the hospital .
and he drew again for the first time , in both of his family and friends -- and you can only imagine what a sense that was in the parking lot .
we also had to break into the parking lot , so we felt quite a part of the sprawl scene .
at the end of the day , he sent us an email with this content : &quot; for the first time in seven years , i &apos;ve been drawing something .
i feel like i was pushed underwater , and finally someone took my head down and pulled my head up so i can breathe . &quot;
isn &apos;t that overwhelming ?
triplets of these letters -- these letters code about 20 amino acids ; and here &apos;s a single purpose for each of these amino acids .
this is something like our fight cry .
that keeps us able , and it keeps us evolving .
and we still have to improve a lot of this device .
it &apos;s an amazing device , but it &apos;s a magic board .
and someone who has such artistic potential deserves so much more .
so we &apos;re trying to figure out how to make it better , faster and stronger .
since that time , we &apos;ve been given all sorts of recognition .
we &apos;ve won a few prices .
remember , it &apos;s free , none of us deserve it .
it all comes from our own pockets .
so we can use the genetic code to write our words , sentences , thoughts .
so the awards were , &quot; oh , that &apos;s fantastic . &quot;
armstrong tweeted about us , and then , in december , the time-magazine honored us as one of the 50 best inventions in 2010 , which was really great .
the coolest thing about this -- and this closes the whole circle -- that there will be an exhibition in the moca in the inner city of los angeles called &quot; art of the streets . &quot;
and i think there will be pretty much the toughest representatives of the street art scene -- banksy , shepard fairey , caws -- all these guys will be there .
tempt is going to be part of the show , which is quite ripped off .
so basically , what i &apos;m talking about is , if you see something that &apos;s impossible , you can do it .
everything in this room was impossible -- this stage , this computer , this microphone , the eyewriter -- everything was impossible at some point .
make it possible -- you all here .
i &apos;m not a programmer , and i &apos;ve never had anything to do with generic fiber technology , but i just captured something and surrounded myself with amazing people so that we could put something on the legs together .
and this is a question that every one of you should ask yourself , every single day that you have to ask them something that needs to be done . if not now , when ? and if not me , who then ?
we just signed at the beginning .
thank you .
so , i write for kids , and i &apos;m probably america &apos;s most common children &apos;s book author .
and i always tell people that i don &apos;t want to get there like a scientist .
you can have me as a farmer , or you can have me in leather , but no one has ever chosen farmers .
today , i want to tell you about circles and revelations .
well , an epiphany is usually something that you find because you dropped it somewhere .
you go around the block and you take it as an epiphany .
this is a painting of a circle .
one of my friends did it -- richard bollingbroke .
it &apos;s the kind of complicated circle that i want to tell you about today .
some people were disappointed that it was not poetry .
my circle started back in the &apos; 60s at high school in stow , ohio , where i was the classroom .
i was the one who was beaten in the juvenile green and blue every week until a teacher saved my life .
she saved my life by letting me use the toilet in the classroom .
she did it secretly .
she did it for three years .
and i had to get out of the city .
i had a thumb , i had 85 dollars , and it hit me to san francisco in california -- i found a lover -- and at the time in the &apos; 80s , i found it important to do a work with aids organizations .
about three or four years ago , i got a call in the middle of the night from this teacher , woman posting , saying , &quot; i have to see you .
i &apos;m sad that we &apos;ve never met each other as adults .
can you please come to ohio , and please come together with the man i know you &apos;ve found him by now .
we built the pieces so that we could just break them up with enzymes , there are enzymes that repair them and put them back together .
and i should mention that i have pancreatic cancer , and i want you to rush , please . &quot;
well , the next day we were in cleveland .
we looked at it , we laughed , we cried , and we knew it had to be in a hospice .
we found one for them , we took them , and we took care of them , and we put them on their family eight , because it was necessary .
it was something we knew to do .
and just as the woman who wanted to meet me as an adult , met me , she turned into a box full of ash and was put in my hands .
what had happened was that the circle had closed , it had become a circle -- and the revelation that i talked about .
the revelation is that death is part of life .
she saved my life , and my partner and i saved yours .
and you know , this part of life needs everything that the rest of life needs .
but at the same time , they had a clear knowledge of the forest that was amazing .
and we started making pieces , starting with pieces that had five to seven thousand letters , added them to each other to make 24,000-letter pieces to put them back together , to 72,000 .
it needs truth and beauty , and i &apos;m so glad that this has been mentioned so often today .
he needs the same -- he needed dignity , love and pleasure . and it &apos;s up to us to give these things .
thank you .
imagine a big explosion as you get up to 1,000 feet .
imagine a smoke airplane .
imagine a power plant that makes a blade , blade , blade , blade , blade , blade , blade , blade .
that sounds frightening .
well , i had a unique place that day ; i was sitting on 1d .
i was the only one who could talk to the flight companions .
so i looked at them in a moment , and they said , &quot; no problem , we probably got some birds . &quot;
in each step , we produced these pieces in the surplus so that we could sequence them because we tried to create a very robust process , which you &apos;ll see in a minute .
the pilot had already turned the machine , and we were not that far away .
you could see manhattan .
two minutes later , three things happened at the same time .
the pilot set up the machine after the hudson river .
it &apos;s not usually the route .
he turns off the drives .
imagine a soundless airplane .
and then he said three words -- the lowest words i &apos;ve ever heard .
he says , &quot; ready for the crash . &quot;
i didn &apos;t have to talk to the border staff anymore .
we tried to get to the point of automation .
i could see it in her eyes , there was horror , life was over .
now , i want to share with you three things that i &apos;ve learned about me that day .
i learned that in a moment everything is different .
we have this life plan , we have these things that we want to do in life , and i thought about all the people i wanted to give a hand and i didn &apos;t do it , all the fences i wanted to flick , all the experiences i wanted to do and never did .
while i was thinking about it later , i came up with a phrase that said , &quot; i &apos;m collecting bad wine . &quot;
because when the wine is there , and the person is there , i open it up .
i never want to make a difference in life .
and that urgency , that goal , really changed my life .
the second thing that i learned that day -- and that was when we missed the george washington bridge , pretty much around hair range -- i thought , man , there &apos;s one thing that i really regret .
i had a good life .
so , this looks like a basketball playoff .
in my own humanity and with my mistakes , i aspired to be better at anything that i was packing .
but in my humanity , i also gave my ego room .
and i regretted the time i wasted for meaningless things , with people who mean something .
and i thought about the relationship with my wife , to friends , to people .
and after that , when i was thinking about it , i decided to ban negative energy from my life .
it &apos;s not perfect , but it &apos;s much better .
i didn &apos;t argue with my wife for two years anymore .
it feels great .
i &apos;m not trying to be right anymore ; i decide to be happy .
the third thing that i learned -- while the internal clock starts , &quot; 15 , 14 , 13 , &quot; to count .
if we get to these really big pieces -- with over 100,000 base pairs -- they &apos;re not just going to grow in e. coli , it &apos;s going to exceed all the possibilities of modern molecular biology , and so we turned to other mechanisms .
you see the water coming .
i said , &quot; please fly into the air . &quot;
i don &apos;t want this thing to break into 20 pieces , as you know from documentaries .
while we were falling , i had this feeling of dying human , dying is not frightening .
almost like we &apos;re preparing for it all of our lives .
but it was very sad .
i didn &apos;t want to go ; i love my life .
and that sadness really formed in a thought , which is that i just wish one thing .
i just wish i could see my children grow up .
about a month after that , i visited a show of my daughter -- first graders , not a lot of artistic talent ...
we knew about a mechanism called the homologous recombination that biology uses to repair dna that can put those pieces together .
... not yet .
and i celebrate , i cry like a little kid .
and in the world , everything made sense for me .
i realized at the time , by connecting the dots to each other , that life is all about being a great father .
more than anything , everything else , my only goal in life is to be a good father .
i became the miracle of not dying that day .
i got another gift , which is to see into the future , and come back and live differently .
my call to all of you who fly today is : imagine the same thing happening on your flight -- please don &apos;t -- but imagine it ; and how would you change ?
what would you do that you put up because you think you &apos;re there forever ?
how would you change your relationships and the negative energy in it ?
here &apos;s an example of it . there &apos;s an organism called deinococus radiodurans that &apos;s three million rays of radiation .
and more than anything , are you the best parents you can possibly be ?
thank you .
the idea behind the stuxnet computer worm is pretty straightforward .
we don &apos;t want iran to build the bomb .
the most important post there for the development of nuclear weapons is the uranium incentive institution in natance .
the gray boxes that you see here are real-time control systems .
now , if we can commit the systems that control the files and the valves , we can actually do a lot of problems with that with the centrifuge .
these gray boxes don &apos;t run with windows software ; they &apos;re based on a completely different technology .
but if we can get an effective windows virus to come in on a laptop that &apos;s used by a warning engineer to configure this gray box , we &apos;re in the business .
and this is the planning behind stuxnet .
you can see in the upper field that his chromosome just falls apart .
so we start with a windows dropper .
the usage data is transferred into the gray box , damaged the centrifuge and the iranian nuclear energy program is delayed -- assignment .
this is a child &apos;s game , right ?
i want to tell you how we found this out .
when we started our research to stuxnet six months ago , it was completely unknown what the purpose and purpose of this construction was .
the only thing we knew is very , very complicated in terms of the windows part , the dropper-part , he was using countless ceroday- flaws .
and it seemed to have something to do with these gray boxes , these real-time control systems .
this attracted our attention , and we started a lab project where we infected our environment with stuxnet , and we studied this construct .
and then something funny happened .
stuxnet behaved like a lab rat that didn &apos;t like our cheese -- sniffed it , but didn &apos;t want to eat it .
12 to 24 hours later , everything has been put together again in the way it was .
that didn &apos;t make sense in my eyes .
and after experimenting with different kinds of cheese , it occurred to me that this is a target attack .
completely focused on a particular goal .
the dropper is actively arguing around the gray box when a specific configuration was discovered , even when the special program that &apos;s trying to infect it on this goal is going to happen .
and if not , then stuxnet doesn &apos;t do anything .
so , that really attracted my interest , and we started working , almost around the clock , because i thought , well , we don &apos;t know what the goal is .
it could be , say , a us- american power station , or a chemical plant in germany .
so we &apos;d better soon figure out what the goal is .
so we extracted and decomposed the attacks code , and we found that it was structured into two digital warheads -- a smaller one and a larger one .
and we also noticed that they were very professionally constructed by people who obviously had all the insider information available .
we have thousands of organisms that can do that .
they knew all the bits and bytes that they had to attack .
they probably even knew the size of the machine operator .
so they knew everything .
and if you &apos;ve already heard that the dropper of stuxnet is complex and high-tech , let me tell you , the use data is a science for yourself .
it &apos;s much more sophisticated than anything we &apos;ve ever seen .
here &apos;s an excerpt from this attacks code .
we &apos;re talking about -- about 15,000 lines of code .
it looks pretty much like old-fashioned assembler language .
and i want to tell you how we were able to get smart from this code .
so what we were looking for first was system-working calls , because we know what they &apos;re doing .
their hunters could smell the urine of an animal from 40 steps away and determine what animal species belonged to .
these organisms can be completely dry , they can even live in the vacuum .
and then we looked for timers and data structures and tried to connect them to the real world -- with potential targets in the real world .
so we needed theories about these goals that we could demonstrate or disprove .
in order to set up these theories , we remind ourselves that it &apos;s definitely highly grave sabotage , it has to be a high-value goal , and it &apos;s very likely to be in iran , because most of the infections have been reported .
well , there aren &apos;t several thousand targets in this area .
basically , it &apos;s going to go out on the bucket &apos;s nuclear power plant , and the uranium incentives in natance .
so i said to my assistant , &quot; bring me a list of all the centrifuge and power plants from our client tribe . &quot;
and i called her up , and i tapped her knowledge to compare her expertise to what we found in the code and in the data .
and that worked very well .
so , we were able to connect the little digital warhead with rotor control .
the rotor is this moving part within the centrifuge , this black object that you see .
i &apos;m absolutely sure that life can exist and move in space , looking for aquatic conditions .
and if you manipulate the speed of this rotor , you &apos;re actually able to crack the rotor and eventually even explode the centrifuge .
and what we &apos;ve also found is that the goal of attacking was to actually make it slow and unsecretly happen -- obviously , in trying to make warning engineers desperate , so they wouldn &apos;t be able to get behind it quickly .
the big digital warhead -- we got a glimpse by looking at very precisely data and data structures .
so , for example , the number of 164 is really sticking out of this code ; you can &apos;t overlook it .
i started working through scientific literature about how these centrifuges were built in natance , and i found that they were structured in so-called cascades , and each cascade contains 164 centrifuge .
so that made sense , it fit together .
and it got even better .
these centrifuge in iran are divided into 15 so-called levels .
and guess what we found in the code of attacks ?
it &apos;s an almost identical structure .
in fact , nasa has shown that there &apos;s a lot of it out there .
so again , that fit really well .
and this gave us a lot of confidence for what we were studying here .
now , don &apos;t get me wrong , it didn &apos;t just go like that .
these results were achieved through several weeks of hard work .
and often we just ran into a dead alley and we had to recollect ourselves .
anyway , we found that both digital warheads were actually heading for the same goal , but from different directions .
the little warhead takes over a cascade , and turns over the rotors and slows them down , and the big warhead comes with six cascades in interaction and manipulates valves .
so , by and large , we &apos;re very confident that we actually determined what the goal is .
it &apos;s natance , and it &apos;s just natance .
so we don &apos;t have to worry that other goals could be hit by stuxnet .
here &apos;s a feature of the molecule that we made using these processes -- actually , we just used hefu mechanisms with the right design of the pieces , and then we put them in . yeast adds it up automatically .
here &apos;s something really cool that we &apos;ve discovered -- it &apos;s really taken me out of the socks .
there &apos;s the gray box down there , and on the top you see the centrifuge .
now , what this thing does is it captures the incorporating values of sensors -- so , for example , of printing sensors and vibration sensors -- and it provides legitimate code that &apos;s still going on during the attack , with false data .
and in fact , this false data from stuxnet is already recorded .
so it &apos;s just like in hollywood movies where , during the pursuit , the surveillance system is fed with video footage before .
that &apos;s cool , isn &apos;t it ?
the idea here , obviously , is not just to test the machine operators in the control room .
in fact , it &apos;s much more dangerous and aggressive .
the idea is to test a digital security system .
we need digital security systems where a human machine operator can &apos;t respond fast enough .
this is not an electron microscope , it &apos;s a regular microscope shot .
so in a power station , for example , when the big steam turbine becomes too fast , you have to open up deposit valves within a millisecond .
of course , this can &apos;t be done by a human machine leader .
so this is where we need digital security systems .
and if they &apos;re at risk , then really bad things can happen .
the power plant can explode .
and neither the machine leaders , nor the security system will notice it .
this is scary .
but it gets worse .
and what i &apos;m saying now is very important .
think about it . this attack is generic .
it &apos;s such a big molecule that we can even see it with the light microscope .
he has nothing in particular to do with centrifuge , with uranization .
so , for example , it would work just as well -- in a power station , or in a car factory .
it &apos;s generic .
and you don &apos;t have to -- as the attacker -- you don &apos;t have to put the use data on a usb stick , as we saw at stuxnet .
you could also use ordinary worm technology to spread .
you just have to spread it as far as you can .
and if you do that , you end up with a cyber weapon of mass destruction .
this is the consequence that we have to face .
so unfortunately , the biggest number of goals for these attacks is not in the middle east .
they &apos;re in the united states , in europe and japan .
this is footage over six seconds .
so all these green areas , these are the most targeted environments .
we have to face the consequences , and we better start to prepare .
thank you .
i have a question .
ralph , a lot of it was reported that people assume that the mossad is the main organization behind it .
is that your opinion ?
okay , you really want to know that ?
yeah . okay .
in my opinion , mossad is involved , but the driving force is not israel .
so the driving force behind that is cyber superpower .
this is the publication we just finished recently .
there &apos;s only one , and these are the united states -- fortunately , fortunately .
because otherwise our problem would be even bigger .
thank you for chasing us a fear of heating . thank you ralph .
i &apos;ve spent the last few years putting myself in situations that are usually very difficult and at the same time kind of dangerous .
i went to jail -- difficult .
i worked in a coal mining -- dangerous .
i filmed in war areas -- difficult and dangerous .
and i spent 30 days eating nothing but this -- fun at the beginning , a little bit difficult in the middle , very dangerous at the end .
in fact , i &apos;ve spent most of my career looking for terrible situations , and just trying to look at social belonging in a way that they &apos;re engaging and interesting , and hopefully understanding what makes them fun and accessible to the audience .
so when i knew i was going to come here to look at the world of branding and sponsoring in a tedtalk , i knew i was going to do something a little different .
this is over 580,000 letters of genetic code , and it &apos;s the largest molecule with defined structure that has ever been created by humans .
some of you may have heard that a couple of weeks ago , i turned an ad on ebay .
i sent some facebook messages , some twitter messages , and i gave people the opportunity to get the name rights at my tedtalk 2011 .
really , some happy people and companies , for-profit and non-profit , got the unique opportunity -- because i &apos;m sure chris anderson will never let it go again -- buy the name rights on the talk that you &apos;re just seeing , which at that point didn &apos;t have a title or a lot of content , and didn &apos;t give a lot of clues about what it would be .
so what you got was this : your name is presenting here : my tedtalk , which you have no idea what the topic is going to be , and that could fly you around your ears , especially if i could dumb your company for your participation .
but besides that , it &apos;s a very good media opportunity .
do you know how many people look at these tedtalks ?
a lot .
this is actually just the working titles .
so despite that warning , i knew anybody would buy the name rights .
now , if you asked me that a year ago , i wouldn &apos;t have been able to tell you that with certainty .
it has a molecular weight of over 300 million .
but in the new project that i work on , my new film , we study the world of marketing , of advertising .
as i said , over the years , i went into some pretty horrible situations , but nothing could get me prepared , nothing could get me ready to go to anything as difficult and as dangerous as these guys into a room .
you know , i had the idea for a movie .
what i want to do is make a film about product placement , marketing and advertising , where the whole movie is funded by product placement , marketing and advertising .
and the film will be called &quot; the greatest movie ever sold . &quot;
so what happens in &quot; the greatest movie ever sold , &quot; is that everything from above to bottom , from beginning to end , is completely packed with brands -- from the cover sponsor you &apos;re going to see in the movie , that &apos;s the brand x .
now this brand , the qualcomm stadium , the stadium center ...
these people will be connected to the movie in forever -- forever .
and so the film is going to study this whole idea -- that &apos;s what ? in eternity , forever ?
i &apos;m a redundant person .
in the early &apos; 80s , i got a really amazing task when my professor at harvard asked me if i was interested in going to haiti and infiltrating the secret societies that were the foundation of the strength of duvalians and tonton macoutes and the poison that was used to make sure of zombies .
if we were to print it with a 10 and without an absence , it would be 142 pages just to print this genetic code .
that was more for emphasis .
it was &quot; in eternity , forever . &quot;
but we &apos;re not just going to have the brand x as a cover sponsor , but we &apos;re going to make sure that we &apos;re going to sell every possible category in the movie .
so we might sell a shoe , and it will be the greatest shoe you &apos;ve ever worn ...
the greatest car you &apos;ve ever had , from &quot; the greatest movie ever sold , &quot; the greatest drink you &apos;ve ever had , a attention from &quot; the greatest movie ever sold . &quot;
so the idea is , besides showing that brands are part of life , is actually to get them to fund the film ?
and we actually show the whole process of how it works .
the goal of the whole film is transparency .
you &apos;ll see the whole thing going on in the movie of stats .
so this is the whole concept , the whole film , from beginning to end .
now , how do we start a chromosome ? how do we activate it ?
and i would be happy if ceg was helping to do this .
you know , it &apos;s funny because when i first heard it , it &apos;s the ultimate respect for the audience .
but i don &apos;t know how receiving people are going to be .
do you have a perspective -- i don &apos;t want to use &quot; perspective , &quot; because that has a negative connotation -- but do you know how this is going to evolve ?
how much money is needed to realize this ?
1.5 million .
i think it &apos;s hard to meet them , but i think it &apos;s worth addressing some really familiar brands .
who knows , when the movie comes out , we might look like a horror vollidiot .
what do you think the answer will be ?
the answer is probably going to be &quot; no . &quot;
obviously , it &apos;s very simple with a virus . it &apos;s much more complicated to deal with bacteria .
but is it a difficult thing to do because of the film or a difficult thing to do ?
jk : both .
... so , not so optimistic .
so , sir , can you help me ? i need help .
i can help .
okay .
fantastic .
we have to think about what brand .
yeah .
if you look at the people that you have to do with ...
it &apos;s just as simple if you do it in eukaryonites as we are : you just take the nucleus out and you put another in , and that &apos;s exactly what you &apos;ve all heard about cloning .
there are some places we can turn to .
put the camera out .
i thought , &quot; put the camera out &quot; would mean that we wanted to have a backup conversation .
it turns out that it really meant , &quot; we don &apos;t want to have anything to do with your movie . &quot;
and just so all these companies disappeared , one after the other .
none of them wanted to have something to do with the movie .
i was amazed .
they wanted to have absolutely nothing to do with the project .
and i was confused because i thought the whole idea of advertising was to present your product to as many people as possible , let it make as many people as possible .
especially in the world today , at this intersection of new and old media and the fragmented media landscape -- it &apos;s not the idea of being in this new exciting medium instrument that the masses bring this message .
in archaebacteria , the chromosome is integrated into the cell , but we just recently showed that you can take a complete transplant of a chromosome from one cell to the other and activate it .
no , that &apos;s what i thought .
but look , the problem was that my idea had a fatal mistake , and that was the following .
in fact , that wasn &apos;t the mistake at all .
that wouldn &apos;t have been a problem at all .
that would have been okay .
but what this picture is for is a problem .
you see , if you type in transparency in the google search , this is -- this is one of the first images that appears .
i really like your kind , sergey brin . now .
that was the problem : transparency -- free of deception and bags , easy to explore and see ; immediately , characterized by visibility and access to information , especially in terms of business sprays -- the last line is certainly the biggest problem .
you know , we &apos;re hearing a lot about transparency right now .
we cleaned up the chromosome of a microbial species , and in general , these two are so far apart , like humans and mice , and we gave some extra genes to choose this chromosome , and we deployed it with enzymes to destroy all the proteins , and it was very amazing when we put it in a cell -- and they &apos;re going to estimate our very sophisticated graphs here .
our politicians say it , our president says it , even our ceos say it .
but when it comes to the point where it &apos;s supposed to be implemented , something changes .
but why ? well , transparency is frightening -- like this strange bear that &apos;s still breeding .
it &apos;s unpredictable -- like this strange highway .
and it &apos;s also very risky .
what else is risky ?
a whole shell of cool whip .
this is very risky .
so when i started talking to the companies and telling them that we wanted to tell this story , they said , &quot; no , we want you to tell a story .
we want you to tell a story , but we just want you to tell our story . &quot;
the new chromosome went into the cell .
you see , when i was a kid , and my father caught me lying -- and he &apos;s sitting there and looking at me with this view -- he would say , &quot; my son , there are three versions in every story .
there &apos;s your version , there &apos;s my version , and there &apos;s the real version . &quot;
so , you see , with this film , we wanted to tell the real version .
but because only one company , one agency was willing to help us -- and it was just because i &apos;ve known john bond and richard kirshentree for years -- i realized that i had to do it alone , i had to go around the middle man and go right to the companies with my team .
so what they suddenly started to understand -- or what i started to understand -- was that when you start talking to these companies , the idea of how your brand is understood is a broad problem .
i have friends making big , gigantic hollywood movies , and i have friends making little independent movies like me .
and my friends who make big , gigantic hollywood movies say that the reason their films are so successful is because of the brand partners they have .
and then my friends who make little independent movies say , &quot; well , how do we compete with these big , gigantic hollywood movies ? &quot;
and the movie is called &quot; the greatest movie ever sold . &quot;
so how exactly are we going to see ban in the movie ?
in fact , we thought that &apos;s the end here , but we tried to get the process a little bit further .
whenever i go on the way , and whenever i open the medical closet , you &apos;ll see ban deodorant .
and every time i interview somebody , i can say , &quot; are you fresh enough for this interview ?
are they there ? they look a little nervous .
i want to help you calm down .
so maybe before the interview , you should put a little bit of this . &quot;
and then we offer one of these great dunes .
either &quot; floral fusion &quot; or &quot; paradise winds , &quot; you &apos;ll have the choice .
we &apos;re going to be equipped for both men and for women -- solid , roll-on , or a stick , whatever .
that &apos;s the short tape .
now i can answer all of your questions and give you an extensive socket .
this is the main mechanism of evolution here .
we &apos;re a smaller brand .
as you &apos;ve talked about the smaller films , we are a challenge as a brand .
so we don &apos;t have a budget like other brands .
so doing these things -- you know , reminds people of ban -- that &apos;s kind of why we &apos;re interested .
in what words would you describe ban ?
ban is blank .
that &apos;s a great question .
superior technology .
technology is not the way to describe something that someone is doing under the axes .
we &apos;re talking about audacious , fresh .
we find all species here that have taken a second chromosome , or a third of some place , adding thousands of characteristics in just a second to a species .
i think , &quot; fresh &quot; is a great word that this category really makes something positive , as opposed to &quot; fighting smell and humidity . &quot;
it keeps you fresh .
how can we keep them fresh longer -- better fresh , more fresh , three times fresh .
these things have a more positive effect .
and this is a million company .
what about me ? what about the printing title ?
i have to talk to the man on the street who &apos;s like me , otto-normal consumers .
you &apos;re supposed to tell me something about my brand .
how would you describe your brand ?
hmmm , my brand ?
to make sense of this sensation , of course , i had to know something about this remarkable belief of the vodoun and voodoo is not a cult of black magic .
so people who think of evolution as a gene that &apos;s changed at a time have missed a lot of biology .
i don &apos;t know .
i really like beautiful clothing .
revival , in the &apos; 80s , is hitting skate points , except on the wash day .
all right , what &apos;s the brand gerry ?
unique .
i think the genre , the style i have , is probably dark glamour .
i like lots of black colors , lots of gray notes and stuff like that .
but usually i have an accessory , like sunglasses , or a jewelry , or something like that .
if dan was a brand , he would probably be a classic mercedes cabrio .
the brand that i am is , i would say , is a reliable fly .
there are enzymes called restriction enzymes that actually digest dna .
woman 2 : part hippie , part yogi , part of brooklyn girls -- i don &apos;t know .
man 3 : i &apos;m the museum guy .
i sell sale museum animals all over the country , around the world .
so i think that &apos;s my brand .
this is my brand in my little distorted industry .
man 4 : my brand is fedex because i was executive .
man 5 : brand of discarded alcohol addictive typewriter .
is that possible ?
lawyer : i &apos;m a lawyer brand .
i &apos;m tom .
the chromosome that was in the cell doesn &apos;t have any ; the chromosomes that we &apos;ve added already .
now , we can &apos;t all be the tom-brand , but i often see myself at the intersection of dark glamour and reliable fly .
and what i noticed was that i needed an expert .
i needed someone who could go into my head , someone who could really help me understand what they call &quot; branding personality . &quot;
and so i found a company called olson zaltman in pittsburg .
they &apos;ve helped companies like nests , febreeding , hallmark , discover this brand personality .
if they could do it for those , they could certainly help me .
they brought their pictures , right ?
i have that . the first picture is a picture of my family .
just tell me a little bit about how this is connected to your thoughts and feelings about you .
these are the people who shape my worldview .
it was expressed in the cell , and it recognized the other chromosome as a foreign material , and so we ended up with just one cell with a new chromosome .
tell me about this world .
md : this world ? i think your own world is the world where you live -- like people around you , the friends , the family , the way you live your life , the work and so on .
all of these things come from a place , and for me they come and start with my family in west virginia .
what &apos;s the next thing you want to talk about .
the next one . this was the most beautiful day of my life .
what is the relationship with the thoughts and feelings about them ?
it &apos;s the way i &apos;d like to be .
i like things that are different .
i like things that are weird . i like weird things .
tell me about the &quot; why &quot; phase -- what does it bring us ?
it was coloring blue because of the genes that we had put in .
what &apos;s the machete ? what puppetry are you in right now ?
why is it important to reboot ? what is the red ?
tell me a little bit about that part .
a little bit more about you , you &apos;re not .
what other metamorphosis did you go through ?
... that doesn &apos;t have to be afraid . what kind of rollercoaster are you in ?
eeee ! no , thank you .
thank you very much for your patience .
yeah . all right .
yeah , i don &apos;t know what it &apos;s going to be like .
and after a very short time , there had been all the characteristics of the species , and completely converted into a new species based on the new software that we put into the cell .
there were a lot of crazy things going on .
the first thing i saw was this idea that their brand personality had two separate but supplementary pages -- the morgan spurlock brand is an eight-hour brand .
they &apos;re very good .
and i think there &apos;s almost a contradiction with that .
and i think some companies will only focus on a strength , rather than both .
a lot of companies tend to -- and this is human nature -- to avoid things that they &apos;re not sure , they &apos;re going to be afraid , these elements , and they &apos;re going to be welcome , and they &apos;re actually turning them into something positive for themselves , and that &apos;s a nice chess .
what other brands are doing like this ?
the first is a classic , apple .
and you can also see it here , target , wii , mini coopers and jetblue .
well , there &apos;s a playful brand and eight brands , these things that come and go , but a playful , eight brand is a pretty strong thing .
all the proteins changed the membranes -- when we read the genetic code , it was exactly what we transferred .
an eight-ounce , playful brand . what &apos;s your brand ?
if somebody asked you to describe your brand identity , your brand personality , how would you be ?
you &apos;re an up-attribute ? are you something that brings blood into whales ?
or are they more like a down-attribute ?
are you something a little bit more quiet , reservative ?
up-attribute are things that are playful , fresh like the fresh prince , timely , adventurous , falling and loving like erol flynn , agile and agile , profan , glorious , magical and mystical like gandalf .
or are they more like a down-attribute ?
are you mindful and mondeny like 007 ?
are they established , traditionally , nurturing , protecting , compassionate like oprah ?
are they reliable , stable , family , sure , born , holy , considerable , like the dalai lama or yoda ?
it may sound like genomic alchimie , but we can , by changing the software dna , change things quite dramatically .
in the course of the movie , we had more than 500 companies up and down companies saying no because they didn &apos;t want to be part of the project .
they didn &apos;t want to have anything to do with this film , because they had no control , no control over the finished product .
but it &apos;s going to find 17 brand partners who were willing to get into this control , who wanted to do business with somebody as mindful and as playful as i am , and who eventually enabled us to tell stories that we usually couldn &apos;t have told -- stories that would normally never be supported by an advertisement .
they enabled us to tell the story of neuromarketing , the way we tell the story in this movie , that you use mri today to inflict the funnest centers of the brain , both to make advertising and films .
we went to sao paulo , where foreign advertising has been banned .
in the entire city , for five years , there &apos;s been no timeline , no posters , no flyer , nothing .
and we drove in school districts where companies are going in their way to poor schools , all over america .
the incredible thing for me is that the projects that i got the most feedback , or where i had the biggest success , are the ones where i directly interacted with things .
and that &apos;s what these brands did .
because they went around the middle man , they went around the agencies , and they said , maybe the agencies don &apos;t really have their interest in mind .
now i &apos;ve argued that this is not the genesis -- this is based on 3.5 billion years of evolution .
i &apos;m going to negotiate with the artist directly .
i &apos;m going to work with him and create something completely different , something that makes people think that our worldview is challenging .
and how was that for you ? what was it successful ?
now , since the movie had the sundance film festival premiere , we can look at this .
according to burrelle , the premiere was in january , and since then -- and this is not even the whole thing -- there were 900 million calls from this film .
this is actually just a two-and-a-half weeks period .
this is just online -- no press , no tv .
the film has not been delivered yet .
it &apos;s not even online . it &apos;s not a streaming .
it hasn &apos;t come out in other countries yet .
and i &apos;ve argued that we might be creating a new form of cambrian explosion in which there might be massive new species based on this digital design .
well , finally , the film got a very big momentum .
and that &apos;s not bad for a project where almost every advertising agency that we talked to has recommended to their clients to let their fingers go .
one of the things that i believe in is that when you take your opportunity , you take risks , you get opportunities in these risks .
i think if you keep people from that , you get them closer to failure .
i believe that if you train your employees to avoid risks , you &apos;re preparing the whole company to get a profit .
i feel that as we move forward , we have to encourage people to take risks .
we need to encourage people not to be afraid of the possibilities that they might be scared .
finally , as we move forward , we should welcome the fear .
we should put the bear in the cage .
welcome the fear . welcome the risk .
on the contrary , it &apos;s a complex metaphysical worldview .
why should we do that ?
there &apos;s a big spoon each , so we welcome the risk .
and finally , we should welcome transparency .
today , more than ever before , a little bit of honesty brings us very far .
and that said , with honesty and transparency , my whole talk was called &quot; welcome transparency , &quot; you were presented by my good friends of emc who paid $ 7100 for the name rights of ebay .
big data is being transformed into big opportunities for organizations around the world .
emc presents &quot; welcome transparency . &quot;
thank you .
now , morgan , in the name of transparency , what happened right now with the $ 7100 ?
that &apos;s a great question .
i put a check in my pocket , put it on the top of the ted organization , the sapling foundation -- a check at the height of 7100 dollars to fund my ted performance in the next year .
i think it &apos;s pretty obvious in terms of what we need .
my name is amit .
18 months ago , i did something else at google , and i was talking about museums and art , and my boss , who &apos;s also today , gave me a green light .
and it took 18 months .
a lot of fun negotiations and stories , i can tell you , with 17 very interesting museums from nine countries .
but i &apos;m going to focus on the performance .
there are a lot of stories about why we did this .
i think my personal view is very simple with this slide and its access .
i grew up in india .
i became a great education -- i didn &apos;t complain -- but i didn &apos;t have too many museums and these works of art .
and then when i traveled , and i went to these museums , i started learning a lot .
we &apos;re growing from six and a half billion to nine billion people in the next 40 years .
and while i was working for google , i was trying to make this yearning -- to make art more accessible -- with technology .
we then created a team , a great team , and we started with this .
i &apos;m going to start with the demonstration , and tell you some interesting things that happened since the launch .
so you just go to googleartproject.com .
you can look around in all these museums here .
there &apos;s uffizi , the moma , the hermitage , the rijks , the van gogh .
in fact , i come to one of my favorite , the metropolitan museum of art in new york .
you come in two ways -- very simple .
click , and wumms , you &apos;re at this museum .
it doesn &apos;t matter where you are -- bombay , mexico , it doesn &apos;t make any difference .
to put it in my context , i was born in 1946 .
you walk around and you amuse yourself .
you want to orient in the museum ?
open the map , and jump with a click .
they &apos;re in there , they want to go to the end of the gang .
just on . lots of fun .
hide them .
thank you , but the best one is still coming .
so now , i &apos;m in front of one of my favorite images , the farm workers of pieter breugel in the met .
i see this plushing sign .
when the museum gave us the image , you click on it .
today , three people on this planet are for everyone who has existed in 1946 ; within 40 years , it will be four .
now this is one of the images .
this is all metadata .
those of you who are really interested in art can click here -- but i &apos;ll click this away now .
this is one of the images that we &apos;ve captured with the so-called gigapix technology .
this picture , for example , has about 10 billion points , i think .
and a lot of people ask me , &quot; what do you get for 10 billion points ? &quot;
here &apos;s what i &apos;m going to show you .
you can zoom in and zoom out .
you see something fun here .
i love this guy ; his expression is unaffordable .
we have problems with food , fresh and clean water , medicine , 6.5 billion people .
but then they really want to go deep .
and so i started playing around , and i realized there &apos;s something going on there .
and i thought , &quot; wait a minute , that sounds interesting . &quot;
i went close , and i slowly realized that these kids actually beat something .
i did a little bit of research , and i talked to some familiar people at the met , and i actually found out that it was a game called squail , where a gang is beaten with a stick on a tuesday .
it seemed to be quite popular .
i don &apos;t know why they did it , but i learned something about it .
to go really close , you can go to the cracks .
just to give you the overview , i zoom out to see what you get .
here we were , and this is the painting .
it &apos;s going to be a challenge to provide that for nine .
but the best one is -- in a second .
let &apos;s jump quickly to moma , again in new york .
another favorite picture of me , star night .
the previous example was to find details .
but what if you want to see the brush stroke ?
and what if you want to see van gogh do this masterpiece ?
you zoomed in . you can actually go in .
i &apos;m going to zoom in on one of my favorite parts of this picture , until i &apos;m really in the cracks .
that &apos;s star night , probably never seen that before .
now i &apos;m going to show you my favorite function .
we need over five billion tons of coal , 30-plus billion barrels of oil . that &apos;s a hundred million barrels a day .
there are many more , but i don &apos;t have time .
that &apos;s the really cool part , it &apos;s called collections .
every one of you , every one of you , whether rich or poor , whether you have a great house -- doesn &apos;t matter .
you can go and create your own museum online -- from all these pictures , you can make your own collection .
simple , you go in -- and i &apos;ve created this , it &apos;s called the power of the zoom -- you can zoom in .
this is the donated , in the national allery .
you can get it all with remarks , send it to your friends , and start a conversation about what you feel when you look at these masterpieces .
and i think , finally , to me , the main thing is that all the wonderful things here don &apos;t come from google .
they don &apos;t even come from the museums , i think .
i shouldn &apos;t say that .
when we think about biological processes , or any process to replace that , it becomes a huge challenge .
they come from the artists .
and that was a humility experience for me .
i mean , i hope that we &apos;re going to talk to this digital medium of art , and represent it properly online .
and the biggest question that i get asked recently is , &quot; did you do that to replicate the experience of a museum visit ? &quot;
the answer to that is no .
it &apos;s supposed to add the experience .
that &apos;s what it &apos;s about . thank you .
thank you .
this is a representation of your brain . your brain can be divided into two halves .
this is the left half , which is the logical side , and then the right half , which is the intuitive side .
then , of course , there &apos;s all the co2 from this material that ends up in the atmosphere .
if we had a scale to measure the aptitudes of every hemisphere , we could represent your brain .
for example , this would be somebody who is completely logical .
this would be somebody who &apos;s completely intuitive .
now , where would you position your brain on this scale ?
some of us may have chosen for one of these extremes , but i think that for most people in the audience , your brain looks something like this -- with a high apple that &apos;s in both hemisphere at the same time .
it &apos;s not like they &apos;re both exclusive or something like that .
they can be logical and intuitive .
and so i think of myself as one of the people , along with most other experimental quantum physicists , who need a good percentage of logic to put the complex ideas together .
but at the same time , we need a good percentage of intuition to actually do the experiments .
how do we develop this intuition ? well , we love to play with things .
it &apos;s interesting .
we have now , from our discoveries from around the world , a database of about 20 million genes , and i want to believe that these are the design components of the future .
so we go out and play with it , and then we look at how it reacts , and then we start to develop our intuition there .
basically , they do the same thing .
so one of the intuitions that they &apos;ve developed over the years is probably that one thing can only be in one place at the same time .
i mean , it can be strange to think that one thing is at the same time in two different places , but they were not born with this idea ; they developed it .
i remember seeing a child playing on a floor threshold when they &apos;re playing .
he was a little kid , and he wasn &apos;t very good at it , and he was constantly falling .
but i bet that playing with the ground threshold taught him a very valuable lesson , which is that the big things don &apos;t just let you go , and they stay in a place .
and this is a great conceptual model of the world , as long as you &apos;re not a particle physicist .
it would be a terrible model for a particle physicist because they &apos;re not playing with soil sponges , but with these little strange particles .
and when you play with your particles , you find all sorts of weird things -- like you fly right through walls , or you can be in two different places at the same time .
the electronics industry had a dozen components , and look at the diversity that came out of it .
and so they wrote down all these observations , and they called them the theory of quantum mechanics .
this was the state of physics a few years ago ; it took quantum mechanics to describe the little , tiny particles .
but it didn &apos;t take them to describe the big everyday objects around us .
that didn &apos;t like my intuition , and maybe it &apos;s just because i don &apos;t play with particles that often .
well , i play with them sometimes , but not very often .
and i &apos;ve never seen them .
i mean , nobody has ever seen a particle .
but my logical side didn &apos;t like it either .
because if all of these things are made of particles and all of these particles follow the rules of quantum mechanics , shouldn &apos;t all just follow the rules of quantum mechanics ?
i don &apos;t see a reason why this shouldn &apos;t be .
we &apos;re primarily hitting the limits of biological reality and the limits of our imagination .
so i &apos;d feel much better about this whole thing , if we could somehow show that everyday objects also follow the rules of quantum mechanics .
so a few years ago , i went to do just that .
i created one .
this is the first object you can see that was in the quantum mechanical superposition .
so what we &apos;re looking at here is a tiny computer chip .
and you can see this green dot there in the middle .
this is the piece of metal that i &apos;m going to talk about in a moment .
this is a picture of the object .
here i &apos;m going to zoom in . we &apos;re looking right at the center here .
and here &apos;s a really big close-up of this little piece of metal .
we have technologies today because of these fast synthesia methods to do what we call combinatorial genetics .
so what we &apos;re looking at is a little piece of metal that &apos;s shaped like a springboard , and it &apos;s over the edge .
so i did this thing in a similar way that you make a computer chip .
i went in a clean room with new siliconic slices , and i would rack on all the big devices for 100 hours .
for the last bit , i had to build my own machine -- to get this swimming pool and shaped hole .
this thing has the ability to be in quantum mechanical superposition , but it takes a little help to do it .
look , let me give you an analogy .
you know how uncomfortable it is to be in a full elevator ?
i mean , when i &apos;m alone in the elevator , i do all sorts of weird things , but then other people go up , and i stop doing all these things because i don &apos;t want to bother them , or , frankly , they go away .
so quantum mechanics says that intractable objects feel the same .
the fellow drivers for intractable objects are not just humans , but also the light that shines at them and the wind that &apos;s sweeping by them and the heat of the space .
we now have the opportunity to build a big robot that can make millions of chromosomes a day .
and so we knew that if we wanted to see this piece of metal behaving in a quantum mechanical way , we had to throw out all the travelers .
and then we did .
we turned off the lights , put it in a vacuum , and we sucked out all the air , and we cooled it almost to the moment , all alone in the elevator , the piece of metal was free to behave as much as it wanted .
so we measured his movement .
we found that it &apos;s really strange .
instead of just being quiet there , it vibrated . the way it was vibrating was something like this -- like a stretching and together a pulling bubble .
in which we gave him a little push , we were able to vibrate it at the same time and not vibrate -- something that &apos;s only allowed in quantum mechanics .
so what i &apos;m going to tell you about is what &apos;s really fantastic .
what does it mean to vibrate an object at the same time and not vibrate ?
let &apos;s think about atoms .
if you can imagine making these 20 million different genes , or optimizing these processes to make octanium or drugs new vaccines , we can change more molecular biology with a small team than the last 20 years of science .
so the first case : all the trillion atoms that the piece of metal is made of are still there , and at the same time the same atoms are moving up and down .
just to precise times , they agree .
the rest of the time , they &apos;re delocalized .
that means that every atom is at the same time in two different places at the same time , which means that the entire piece of metal is in two different places .
i think that &apos;s really cool .
really .
and that was worth putting me in the clean room for all this year , because , check that out , the difference between a single atom and this piece of metal is about the same as the difference between the piece of metal and you .
so if a single atom can be in two different places at the same time , that piece of metal can be in two different places , why not you ?
i mean , that &apos;s just what my logical side says .
so , imagine if you were at the same time in multiple places , how would that feel ?
and it &apos;s just a mere selection . we can selecte for life , production of chemicals , or fuel production , and so on .
how would your consciousness deal with your body being delocalized in the room ?
there &apos;s another aspect of the story .
when we warmed it up , switched on the lights and looked at the box , we saw that the piece of metal was always there in a piece of paper .
and so i had to develop this new intuition that it looks like all the objects in the elevator are really just quantum objects that are made together in a small space .
you hear a lot of talk about how quantum mechanics says that everything is connected to everything .
well , that &apos;s not quite right .
there &apos;s more to it , it &apos;s even deeper .
it &apos;s like these connections , their connections with all the things around them , literally define who they are , and that &apos;s the profound and strange of quantum mechanics .
thank you .
in 2007 , i decided that we should reconceptualize how we think about economic development .
this is a photograph of actual design software that we &apos;re working on , that you &apos;re actually sitting down with , and you &apos;re designing new species on the computer .
it should be our goal that if families think about where they live and work , they will be able to choose between at least one hand of different cities all in competition for new residents .
right now , we &apos;re far from this goal .
there are billions of people in the developing world who don &apos;t even have a single city that it would be welcome .
but the amazing thing about cities is that they &apos;re worth so much more than it costs to build them .
so we could very easily deploy the world , maybe even hundreds of new cities .
now this may sound absurd for you , as far as you &apos;ve never thought about new cities .
you know , just exchange the building of apartments against the cities .
imagine half the people who want to live in apartments did this already , but the other half don &apos;t .
you could try to expand the capacity of existing apartments .
but you know what they would be engaged in , in these apartments and their environment , there are laws to avoid complaining and to distract from degradation .
you know , we don &apos;t necessarily know what it &apos;s going to look like . we know exactly what their genetic code is going to look like .
so it turns out to be very difficult to get all these extensions .
but you could go to a whole new place , build a whole new block of housing , assuming the laws there would support this kind of building and not prevent it from happening .
so what i &apos;ve proposed is that governments are creating new areas that are offering enough space for a city , and i &apos;ve given them a name : charter cities .
i later found out that about the same time , jafour and octavio , were thinking about the challenge of reform in honduras .
they knew that every year about 75,000 hondurans would leave their country to go to the united states , and they wanted to know what they could do to make sure that these people could stay in their country and do exactly the same in honduras .
at this point , jafour said to octavio , &quot; what happens if we take an uncolonized area of our country -- what if we just put it in a message -- a part of the american embassy , a part of the canadian embassy , and then if people want to go to work under the canadian rules , or those of the united states , can they work there , and can do everything they usually do to canada or america ? &quot;
in the summer of 2009 , honduras suffered from a significant comprehension crisis .
in the next planned elections , pepe lobo won in a turnaround , whose program promised both innovation and simplification .
he asked octavio to become his stable .
in the meantime , i was preparing for a talk at tedglobal .
we &apos;re now focusing on the fourth generation fuels .
by improving , trying and investigating consumers , i &apos;ve tried to reduce this complicated concept of charter city to the basic elements .
the first point is the importance of laws , laws that determine that you can &apos;t disturb existing housing owners .
we give a lot of attention to new technologies , but for progress , it needs technologies and laws , and it &apos;s usually laws that keep us back .
in the fall of 2010 , a friend from guatemala octavio sent the link to the tedtalk .
and he showed him jafour .
the two called me .
and they said , &quot; let &apos;s present this to the chairman of our country ! &quot;
so we met in december in a hotel &apos;s seat in miami .
i &apos;ve tried to make it clear how valuable cities are to how much more valuable they are than they cost .
and i used this graph to show how valuable rohland is in a place like new york , and remember that in some cases , a surface is worth thousands of dollars per square meter .
we have to deal with the inexorable separation through death , and so it shouldn &apos;t surprise us that we all sing , dancing and art .
if i asked you to count the great world religions , what would you say ?
you saw corn to ethanol recently , which is just a bad experiment .
but it was a pretty abstract discussion , in a place where there was a break , octavio said , &quot; paul , we might be able to look at the tedtalk . &quot;
so the tedtalk represented in a very simple form that a charter city is a place that is the beginning of uninhabited land , a founding contract that determines the laws that are there and the people are offering the opportunity to decide either to live or not to live under these rules .
so i was asked by the president of honduras , who said that we had to do this project , that it &apos;s important , and that this is the way we &apos;re going to bring our country forward .
i was asked to come to tegucigalpa and give a talk again on the fourth and fifth of january .
so i gave one more fulfilled talk , which involved a graph like this , which tries to illustrate that if you want to create a lot of value in a city , it has to be a very large city .
this is a picture of the city of denver , and the sketch is the new airport that was built in denver .
this airport alone has a surface of 100 square kilometers .
so i tried to convince the hondurans , if you want to build a new city , you have to start with an area of at least 1,000 square kilometers .
that &apos;s more than 250 thousand acres .
polite , everybody has applauded .
we have fuels of the second and third generation that are going to come out pretty soon that will have much higher sugars , like octanol or different kinds of butanol .
the audience &apos;s faces were very serious and careful .
the head of congress came on the stage and said , &quot; professor romer , thank you very much for your talk , but maybe we could look at the tedtalk .
i have it on my laptop here . &quot;
so i sat down , and they played the tedtalk .
and i &apos;ve come to the core point that a new city offers new possibilities to people .
there would be the opportunity to live in a city that would be in honduras instead of hundreds of miles away in the north .
and a new city includes new opportunities for leaders as well .
the leaders of the government in honduras would depend on the help of partnerships , could benefit from their partnerships that they would be supporting with the legislation of this charter and the execution that everyone can trust that the charter is really being implemented .
and the realization of president lobo was that the certainty of the translation that i &apos;ve been thinking about as a way to get the foreign investors to come and build this city could be equally important for all the parties in honduras who have been suffering from fear and mistrust for many years .
we went into an area .
but , as we think , the only way that biology is going to have a huge impact on the cost of food or restriction of its availability is when we see co2 as a starting material , and that &apos;s why we &apos;re working on cells that go this way .
this picture is from this place .
it &apos;s just a thousand square kilometers .
and shortly after that , on january 19th , they voted with congress for a change in the constitution to have a constitutional rule that is reliable for special development areas .
in a country that has just been given a significant crisis , congress was elected to change the constitution with 124 to a voice .
all the parties , all the fractions of society , supported this .
to be part of the constitution , it has to be approved twice by congress .
on february 17th , it was approved for the second time with 114 to a voice .
immediately after this election , between the 21st and the 24th of february , a delegation of about 30 famine people went to the two places in the world that were most interested in getting into the city &apos;s business .
one place is south korea .
this is a picture of a big , new city center that was built in south korea -- big as the city center of bostons .
and we think that we &apos;re going to be the first with fuels of the fourth generation in about 18 months .
everything you can see in this picture was built within four years after it took four years to get the permits .
the other place that was very interested in building the city is singapore .
there have been two cities built in china already , and the third is in preparation .
so if you think about it practically , it &apos;s where we are today .
they already have a building site , and they &apos;re already mentioning this area for the second city .
it &apos;s already been working on a legal system that allows managers to participate , and it &apos;s also being worked on an external legal system .
a country has already offered to provide its supreme court as a court for the decent appeal of the legal system there .
urban designers and construction are also very interested .
they even bring in funding .
one of the things that you already know has been explained , there &apos;s a lot of rent .
sunlight and co2 are a method .
there are a lot of businesses that would like to be in america , especially in a place with a free trade zone , and there are a lot of people who would like to live there .
around the world , there are 700 million people who say they want to live permanently in a different place .
a million people a year go out of latin america and migrate to the united states .
many of them are fathers who are forced to leave their families to look for work -- sometimes they &apos;re single mothers who have to make enough money to be able to afford food and clothing .
unfortunately , sometimes even kids who are trying to find their parents who , in some cases , haven &apos;t seen them for a decade .
so what is it that an idea to think about building a whole new city in honduras ?
or even building stupid of these cities , or distributing hundreds around the world ?
so what is it that an idea to insist that every family has a choice between several cities that are in competition for new residents ?
that &apos;s an idea worth spreading .
my honduras friends asked me to say , thank you ted .
but in our discovery of the world , we have all sorts of different ways .
do you know how many decisions you make on a typical day ?
do you know how many decisions you make in a typical week ?
i &apos;ve done a survey recently with over 2,000 americans , and the average number of decisions , which according to a typical american in one day , is 70 .
and also , a recent study was done with ceos , where they watched the ceos for a week .
and these scientists have just documented the different topics that these ceo is dealing with , and how much time they spent making decisions that relate to the topics .
and what they found is that an average ceo is doing 139 tasks a week .
each of these topics , of course , was made up of many , many smaller decisions .
50 percent of their decisions were made in nine minutes or less .
only for about 12 percent of their decisions did they take an hour or more of their time .
think about your own decisions .
this is an organism we described in 1996 .
do you know how many decisions you make in the nine minutes of category versus those in the one hour of category ?
how good do you think you are at copying the decisions ?
today , i want to talk about one of the biggest decision-making problems of our modern time , the decision-overlapping problem .
i want to talk about the problem and some possible solutions .
now , when i talk about this problem , i &apos;m going to ask you some questions , and i want to know your answers .
if i ask you a question , raise your hand , because i &apos;m blind , only if you want to burn some calories .
otherwise , i ask you , if i ask you a question , and your answer is yes , so my first question for today is : are you ready to hear something about the decision-overlapping problem ?
thank you .
when i was a graduate student at stanford university , i went to this very exclusive grocery store ; at least at the time he was really exclusive .
it was a store called draeger &apos;s .
it lives in the deep sea , about a mile and a half deep , in almost boiling water temperatures .
this business , it was almost like a pleasure party .
they had 250 different kinds of mustard and essive and over 500 different kinds of fruits and vegetables and more than two dozen different kinds of water -- and that was at a time when we actually drank water .
i loved going to this business , but at a time i wondered , well , how come you never buy anything ?
here &apos;s the olive oil gang .
they had over 75 different kinds of olive oil , including those that were embedded in boxes that came from a thousand years old olive trees .
so one day , i decided to go to the filile ladder , and i asked the ladder , &quot; does this model work that you really offer people all these possibilities ? &quot;
and he pointed to the bus charges of tourists who came every day and used to have their cameras .
we decided to do an experiment , and we chose to do a marmelade for our experiment .
here &apos;s her martian gang .
they had 348 different kinds of marine melade .
it converts co2 into methane , using hydrogen as a source of energy .
we &apos;ve set up a little cook bag right at the entrance of business .
we &apos;ve put six different flavors of marmelade or 24 different flavors of marine melade , and we &apos;ve looked at two things : first of all , what case would more people stand up and try marmelade ?
there are more people left when it was 24 , about 60 percent , than if it was six , about 40 percent .
and after that , we looked at what case people were more likely to buy a glass of brand .
now we saw the reverse effect .
of the people who stayed there when it was 24 , only three percent actually bought a glass of marmelade .
of the people who stayed there when it was six , well , now we saw that 30 percent of them actually bought a glass of brand .
now , if you calculate it , people would buy six times more of a glass of who they had six choices than if they had 24 choices .
now , deciding not to buy a glass of marmelade is probably good for us -- at least it &apos;s good for our waist -- but it turns out that the decision overlap problem also affects us in very consequence decisions .
we don &apos;t choose to decide , even though it &apos;s against our own best interests .
we &apos;re looking at whether we can use stored co2 that could just be brought to production plans , converting co2 into fuel to drive this process .
so , the issue of the day : saving money .
now i &apos;m going to describe to you a study that i did with gur huberman , emir kamenica , wei jang , where we were looking at the decisions for the retirement of almost a million americans from about 650 plans across the united states .
and what we looked at was whether the number of fonds that were possible for a retirement plan , the 401 plan , the probability of whether more is saved for tomorrow .
and we found that there was actually a correlation .
so in these plans , we had about 657 plans that would offer people something between two and 59 different fund .
and what we found was that the more fund was offered , in fact , that the rate was lower .
now , if you look at the extremes , the plans that are offering two fund , they had a partial rate in the &apos; 70s -- still not as high as we want .
in the plans that are offering almost 60 fund , the participation rate now dropped to about the sixth percent .
now it turns out that even if you participate in unlocked options , if there were more options for choice , even then it has negative consequences .
so the people who decided to participate tend to be more likely to have the more opportunities they had , the more they rent it to choose actias and funds .
christianity , islam , buddhism , judaism , whatever .
within a short period of time , we think we could be able to solve one of the fundamental questions of life .
the more options they had , the more they put all their money into pure money market accounts .
none of these extreme decisions , belonging to the decisions that someone would recommend from people , if we care about their future financial well-being .
now , in the last 10 years , we &apos;ve seen three basic negative consequences in humans that are offering more and more choices .
they push the decision -- push it up , even when it comes to their own best interest .
they make more bad decisions -- worse financial decisions and worse medical decisions .
they choose for things that they make themselves less happy , even if they make it objective better .
the main reason for this is that we might enjoy looking at these huge shelves full of mayonaise , mustard , essive and marble , but we can &apos;t actually draw the comparisons and the boundaries and then actually choose something out of the fantastic deal .
so what i want to suggest to you today is four simple techniques -- techniques that we have tested in different ways and different research places -- that you can just use in your business .
first of all , narrow .
you &apos;ve heard it before , but it was never more true than today , that less is .
you know , we really have -- moderate goals like replacing the entire petrochemical industry . right . if you couldn &apos;t do that at ted , where else ? becoming a main source of energy .
people are always concerned when i say , &quot; limited . &quot;
they &apos;re always worried that they &apos;re losing real space .
but in fact , we see it more and more , that if you &apos;re willing to constrain , and the unimportant equality opportunities are going to get rid of , well , then there &apos;s a increase in sales , it &apos;s going down the cost , the &amp; amp ; and there &apos;s a improvement in decision-making .
when proctor and gamble reduced the different head and shoulder species from 26 to 15 , they experienced a 10 percent increase in sales .
when the golden cat corporation got rid of its 10 worst selling cats streams , they found that the profits went up by 87 percent -- a result of both of them , the increase in sales and the reducing cost .
you know , the average supermacrt today gives you 45,000 products .
a typical walmart offers you 100,000 products today .
but the ninth largest supermarket , which is now the ninth largest supermarket in the world , is aldi , and they &apos;re only offering them 1,400 products -- a kind of tomato sauce in doses .
now , in the world of savings , i think one of the best examples that have recently come to the market , about how best to mandate choice , was something that david laibson has been very much involved in , and it &apos;s a program that &apos;s offered at harvard .
every single harvard worker is automatically participating in a lifetime fund .
but in the same way , we &apos;re working on using the same approaches to developing vaccines .
those who really want to make a choice are offered 20 fund , not 300 or more fund .
you know how people often say , &quot; i don &apos;t know how to limit it .
it &apos;s all important opportunities . &quot;
and the first thing i ask the employees is , &quot; tell me how the possibilities are different from each other .
and if your employees can &apos;t keep them apart , your customers can &apos;t . &quot;
now , before we started lunch today , i had a conversation with gary .
and gary said that he was willing to provide an all-inclusive vacation to the world &apos;s most beautiful street for all people in this audience .
here &apos;s a description of the street .
and i &apos;d like to read them to you .
and now i &apos;m going to give you a few seconds to read them , and then i &apos;m going to ask you to clap , if you &apos;re willing to adopt gary &apos;s offer .
you saw it this year with the flu , we &apos;re always in the back for a year , and we have a dollar too little when it comes to the right vaccine .
okay . everybody who &apos;s ready to take gary &apos;s offering .
are they all ?
well , let me show you a little bit more of it .
they knew it was a trick , right ?
well , who &apos;s ready for this journey .
i think i may have heard more hands .
good .
the fact is that it was objective , the first time it had more information than the second time , but i would dare to guess that they felt it the second time that it was real .
because the images made it feel more real for them .
which brings me to the second technology that helps them deal with the problem of decision-making , which is concretization .
i think that can be changed by making recombined vaccines in the front .
it &apos;s about people , in order to understand the difference between possibilities , have to understand what consequences are associated with the individual possibilities , and that these consequences have to be alive and concrete .
why do people spend on average 15 to 30 percent more on using an ec-map or a credit card than barefoot ?
because it doesn &apos;t really feel like we do .
and it turns out that if you make it feel concrete , it &apos;s a very good tool to get people to save more .
so in a study that i did with shlomo benartzi and alessandro previtero , we did a study with the people at ing -- employees who all worked for ing -- and these people were all in a gathering where they had their participation in their retirement plan .
and during that gathering , we left that gathering just as it was , we just added a small thing .
the smallness that we added was that we asked people to just think of all the positive things that would happen in their lives if they save money .
in which we did this simple thing , there was a 20 percent increase in participation , and there was a increase in the number of people who were willing to save , or a four percent increase in the amount they were willing to pay for the savings account .
third technology : categorization .
we can deal with more categories than with more choices .
that &apos;s what the future might look like with changes , can now accelerate the evolutionary tree with synthetic bacteria , archaea , and perhaps eukaryonts .
here , for example , is a study that we did in a magazine entrance .
it turns out that in the path of supermarkets up and down in the northeast , the number between 31 different kinds of magazines has up to 64 magazines .
but you know what ?
if i show you 600 magazines and i divide them into 10 categories , or i show you 400 magazines , and i divide them into 20 categories , you think i &apos;ve given you more choice and a better choice than i would have given you the 400 , versus that if i had given you the 600 .
because the categories tell me how to keep them apart .
here are two different jewelry facilities .
one is called &quot; jazz , &quot; and the other is called swing . &quot;
if you think the left ad is swing , and the ad on the right is jazz , you clap your hands .
okay , there &apos;s a couple .
if you think it &apos;s on the left , jazz , and it &apos;s on the right side of swing , please clap .
we are a light years from improving people . our goal is that we have a chance to survive long enough to do that . thank you very much .
okay , a few more .
well , it turns out they &apos;re right .
the one on the left is jazz , and the one on the right is swing , but you know what ?
this is a highly unuseful categorization scheme .
the categories have to tell the selection something that doesn &apos;t give the choice .
and this is a problem that you often see when you look at the long lists of all these funds .
who do you really want to inform ?
my fourth technology : prescription for complexity .
it turns out that we can actually deal with more information than we think , we just have to simplify it .
we need to slowly increase complexity .
at the last ted conference , i gave a introduction to the lhc .
i &apos;ll show you an example of what i mean .
let &apos;s take a very , very complicated decision : the purchase of a car .
here &apos;s a german car manufacturer who gives you the opportunity to configure your car completely yourself .
you have to make 62 different decisions to completely design your car .
now , these decisions are different from the number of choices that they provide per choice .
car color , foreign color of the car -- i have 56 options .
motors , gears -- four possibilities .
what i &apos;m doing now is i &apos;m changing the order in which the decisions seem .
half of the customers go from the many possibilities , 56 car colors to the low possibilities , four gears .
the other half of the customers go from the low possibilities , four gears , to the 56 car colors , lots of possibilities .
and i promised to come back to explain to you how the machine works .
what do i look at ?
how interested they are .
if you &apos;re always using the standard choice in the decision , it means that you &apos;re being overwhelmed , the healthiest , i &apos;m losing it .
what they find is that the people who go from the many to the low choice dough will go over and over and over again the standard choice .
we lose them .
go from the few choices to the many , then stay in .
it &apos;s the same information . it &apos;s the same number of possibilities .
the only thing i &apos;ve done is to change the order in which this information is presented .
when i start with the simple one , i learn how to choose .
even though the gear chooses , it doesn &apos;t tell me about my preferences at the interior , it &apos;s still preparing me to choose .
so it &apos;s so far . and for those of you who weren &apos;t there at the time , the lhc is the largest scientific experiment ever done -- 27 kilometers across .
i &apos;m also excited about the big product that i put together , and so i &apos;m willing to get motivated to be involved .
let me summarize .
i &apos;ve told you about four techniques that mimic the problem of decision overlapping -- limited -- get rid of the over-fluid alternatives ; make it real ; categorize -- we can deal with more categories , less opportunities ; we can prepare for complexity .
each of these techniques that i &apos;m describing to you today is thought to help you manage the opportunities -- good for you , you can use them for yourself , good for the people you offer service .
because i think the key to the best possible choice is that if you choose , you &apos;re selective .
and the more we &apos;re choosing , the better we &apos;re going to be able to practice the art of choice .
thank you .
hi . i &apos;m kevin allocca , tear manager at youtube , and i &apos;m looking at youtube videos for a living .
that &apos;s true .
today we want to talk about how video becomes viral , and then we want to talk about why it &apos;s important at all .
a continent is always left out , because the guess was that in sub-saharan africa , there is no religious belief . of course , there was one , and voodoo is simply the remaining of this very profound religious thought that came across during the tragic diaspora of slavery .
his job is to create the conditions that existed less than a billionth of a second after the universe began -- and that was up to 600 million times within a second .
we all want to be stars -- celebrities , singers , comedians -- when i was young , it seemed so infinite .
but web videos have enabled us to all , or all of our creative activities , become insanely famous in a part of the world &apos;s culture .
every single one of you could be famous on the internet to the next saturday .
but on youtube , more than 48 hours of video is uploaded every minute .
and again , only a tiny percentage of that is ever viral and is viewed thousands of times , and so is the cultural moment .
so how does this work ?
three things : tastemaker , participation communities and the unexpected .
well , let &apos;s do it .
oh my god . oh my god .
oh my god !
it &apos;s just breathtaking ambition .
whoa !
ohhhhhhhhhhhhh , woww !
last year , bear vasquez sent this video that he had filmed in front of his house in yosemite national park .
in 2010 , it had been 23 million times viewed .
this graph shows what it looked like when the video was first popular for the first time last summer .
in fact , bear didn &apos;t want to make a viral video .
he just wanted to share one rainbow .
because this is how you do it when you &apos;re called yosemite mountain bear .
he had uploaded a lot of natural videos .
and this video had actually been sent in january .
this is the machine below geneva .
what &apos;s happened here ?
there was jimmy kimmel .
jimmy kimmel ended up sending the tweet that made the video so popular in the end .
because tastemaker like jimmy kimmel introduces us to new and interesting things , and show a big audience .
it &apos;s friday , friday . gotta get down on friday . everybody &apos;s looking forward to the weekend . friday , friday . gettin &apos; down on friday . you wouldn &apos;t have thought we &apos;d have this conversation without talking about this video , i hope .
rebecca blacks is one of the most popular videos of the year .
it &apos;s been looked at almost 200 million times this year .
this is what the graph looked like .
just like the double rainbow , it seems to have come out of nowhere .
what happened that day ?
we take pictures of this mini-big bang in detectors .
well , it was friday , that &apos;s true .
if you want to know , these other peaks are also fridays .
but what about that day , that particular friday ?
well , tosh.0 forged it , a lot of blogs started writing about it .
michael j. nelson of the mystery science theater was one of the first to make a joke about it on twitter .
what &apos;s important is that a single person or group of tastemakers took a point of view , shared with a big audience and accelerated the process .
and then this community of people who shared this great joke , and started talking about it and playing with it .
now there are 10,000 parodies of &quot; friday &quot; on youtube .
in the first seven days , there was a parody for every single day .
unlike the one-way conversation of the 20th century , the participating in the community is our way to become part of this phenomenon -- either by spreading it or making something new out of it .
this is what i &apos;m working on . it &apos;s called atlas detector -- 44 meters across , 22 meters across .
nyan cat is animation and music in loop loop .
that &apos;s it , very simple .
this year , it was almost 50 million times viewed .
and if you think that &apos;s crazy , you should know that there &apos;s a three-hour version that &apos;s been looked at four million times .
even cats are looking at this video .
cats look at cats looking at this video .
what &apos;s important is the creativity that exists in the internet culture of techie and geeks .
there were remixes .
somebody made an old-fashioned version of it .
and then it became international .
here &apos;s a spectacular picture of the atlas in the construction so you can see the scale .
an entire remix community shot out of the ground that made it from a stupid joke to something that we can all participate in .
today we don &apos;t just find pleasure from something we &apos;re doing .
who could have anticipated this ?
who could have predicted double rainbow or rebecca black or nyan cat ?
what scripts could you have written in which it stands ?
in a world where every minute video is uploaded for two days , only truly unique and unexpected video can emerge like the videos that i mentioned .
i admit i wasn &apos;t particularly interested in this when a friend told me to look at this great video , about a guy protesting in new york against ticket for bicycles .
i got a ticket because i didn &apos;t go on the bike lane , but often there are disabilities that don &apos;t let you drive on the bike lane .
since that was completely surprising and humorous , casey niestats was looked at his funny idea and his argument five million times .
this approach applies to everything new that we do creatively .
on september 10 , last year , the machine ran for the first time .
and that all leads to the one big question ...
what does that mean ?
ohhhh .
what does that mean ?
tastemaker , creative community , totally unexpected , are the characteristics of a new kind of media and culture that everybody has access to and where the audience has popularity .
as i said , one of the biggest stars now -- justin bieber -- made his beginning at youtube .
no one has to give their ideas green light .
and today , we all feel like owners of our pop culture .
and these are not the characteristics of old media , and they &apos;re hardly hitting the media of today , but they &apos;re going to determine the conversation of the future .
thank you .
and this picture was taken by atlas .
the story is not over yet .
it &apos;s a puzzle that &apos;s still being put together .
i want to tell you about some of the puzzles .
imagine the first piece : a man to burn his life .
he &apos;s a poet , a writer , a man whose whole life has been held together by the simple hope of oneness and freedom of his home .
keep it in mind when the communist &apos;s invoke in saigon , how he must admit that his life had been a single waste .
the words , as long as his friends , were now joking his .
he moved back to silence .
he died , broken by the story .
it caused immense jewelry in the control room .
he &apos;s my grandfather .
i never met him personally .
but our lives are so much more than our memories .
my grandmother never let me forget his life .
i had to make sure it wasn &apos;t free , and it was my job to learn that the story was really trying to crush us , but we were over it .
the next piece of puzzle shows how a boat is running quietly in the early days in the sea .
my mother was 18 when her father died -- in an arranged marriage , already with two little girls .
for them , life had given her a task : the escape of her family and a new life in australia .
it was completely excluded that it could fail .
after a four-year-old and film tire saga , a boat would slip down to the lake as a fishing boat .
it &apos;s a picture of the first radiation particle that put all the way around the lhc , then intentionally colonized with a part of the lhc to have a rain of particles prashing to the detector .
all adults were aware of the risks .
the biggest fear they had was pirate , rape and death .
like most adults on the boat , my mother was carrying a little poison bottle .
if you took a prisoner , my sister and i , then you and my grandmother would have drunk from it .
my first memories are from this boat -- the steady virtue of the engine , the clapping of every wave on the front , the length and empty horizon .
i don &apos;t remember the pirates that came many times , but they were fooled by the death of the men on our boat , or the deterioration of the engine , who didn &apos;t want to start six hours .
but i remember the lights of the oil platform off the malayan coast , and the young man who collapsed and died , the end of the journey was too much for him , and the taste of the first apple that one of the men gave me on the platform .
no apple ever tasted like this again .
after three months in a refugee camp , we ended up in melbourne .
and the next piece of puzzle is about four women in three generations that together build a new life .
but what makes voodoo so interesting is this living relationship between the living and the dead .
in other words , when we saw this image on september 10 , we knew that the machine was working , which is a big triumph .
we went to footscray nieder , one of the working-class residents , whose population is made of immigrant layers .
unlike in the old-fashioned middle-class suburbs , whose existence was completely unknown to me , there was no sophisticated thinking in footscray .
the scaffolding smells came from the rest of the world .
and the fat broken english was swapped between people who had one thing in common : they started new .
my mother was working on farms , and then on a assembly line in a car factory , six days , twice layers .
and she somehow managed to find the time to acquire english and it qualifications .
we were poor .
every dollar was given , and they were put in further education for english and math , no matter what we had to get to , and most of the time , the new things that always came out of the second hand .
two strands for school , each to cover the holes in the other .
a school uniform to the buttons , because it had to reach six years .
i don &apos;t know if this created the biggest jew , or this , when someone went to the google side and found the front page like this .
and there were the rare but painful choirs of &quot; sled eye , &quot; and here and there are transformers , &quot; asians , go home . &quot;
go home where ?
something was sticking in me .
there was a meeting for reconciliation , and a quiet voice said , &quot; i &apos;m going to go out of your way . &quot;
my mother , my sister and i slept in the same bed .
my mother was exhausted every night , but we told each other about our day , and we listened to the movements of our grandmother in the house .
my mother was suffering from nightmare .
and it was my job to stay awake every night until their nightmares came up so i could wake them up .
she opened up a computer business , then made a cosmetic education , and then opened a business .
and the women came with their stories about men who didn &apos;t get the change , angry and unflexible , and troubled kids , trapped between two worlds .
it means that we have a cultural impact besides the scientific achievement .
loans and sponsors were searched .
centers were built .
i lived in parallel worlds .
in one , i was the classic asian student who provided unquestionable demands to himself .
in the other , i was involved in unsafe life , wearing tragic scars of violence , of drug abuse and insulation .
but so many have been helped over the years .
and because of this help , i was selected in my last year of law school as a young australian of the year .
and i was catapulted from one piece of puzzle to the next catapult , and the edges didn &apos;t fit together .
tan le , anonymous inhabitant of footscray , was now tan le , refugee and social activist , who was invited to speak to places that she had never heard of , and in homes that she never could have imagined .
i was not familiar with the label .
about a week later , there was a problem with the machine that had to do with these wires here -- these golden wires here .
i didn &apos;t know how to use the bribe .
i didn &apos;t know how to talk about wine .
i didn &apos;t know how to talk about anything .
i wanted to go back to the routine and the convenience of the life of an unknown suburb -- a grandmother , a mother and two daughters who have been graduating every day for 20 years , telling each other the stories of their day , and sleeping with each other , we still have the same bed .
i told my mother i was not going to do that .
she reminded me that i was now as old as they were when we were climbing the boat .
no , no had never been an opportunity .
&quot; just do it , &quot; she said . &quot; and don &apos;t be what you are . &quot;
so i talked about adolescence and education , and the neglect of marginalized and calculated .
and the more i talked , the more i should tell .
these wires run 13-thousand lights when the machine runs on high performance .
i met people in all living systems , so many of them did what they loved , lived on the limits of the possible .
and even though i graduated from my degree , i realized that i couldn &apos;t find myself with a career in jura .
there had to be another piece of puzzle .
and i realized at the same time that it &apos;s okay to be an outsider , a republic , a new image -- and not just okay , but something you have to be grateful for , maybe a gift of the boat .
because belonging can lead so easily to the collapse of the horizon , it can mean so easily that you accept the assumptions of the environment .
i &apos;ve now gone out of my comfort zone to know that , yes , the world is breaking apart , but not as afraid of it .
opportunities that would not have been allowed have been explicitly encouraged .
there was an energy , an inexorable optimism , a strange mixture of humility and the wagnish .
so i followed my gut feeling .
i collected a little team of people around me , for whom the blade &quot; doesn &apos;t &quot; go , &quot; was an unresistant challenge .
now , the engineers among you will look at them and say , &quot; no , they don &apos;t . these are little wires . &quot;
for a year , we didn &apos;t have a cent .
at the end of every day , i cook a huge pot of soup that we shared .
we worked late at night .
most of our ideas were crazy , but they were a few brilliant ones , and we got the breakthrough .
i made the decision to move to the u.s .
after just a trip there .
my gut feeling again .
three months later , i was moved , and the adventure went on .
before i finish the talk , i want to tell you about my grandmother .
she grew up at a time when confucianism was the social norm and the local mandarin the most important person .
they can do that because if you cool them down very far , they become something called superconductors .
life had not changed for centuries .
her father died soon after she was born .
her mother raised her alone .
at the age of 17 , she became the second woman of a mandarin whose mother beat her .
without support for her husband , she worried for a sensation by bringing him to court and being a lawyer in her own case , and a bigger sensation than she won .
&quot; can &apos;t &quot; be &quot; untrue . &quot;
i just ducked in a hotel room in sydney when she died , 1,000 miles away in melbourne .
i looked through the shower wall , and i saw them on the other side .
i knew she had come to say goodbye .
my mother called me a few minutes after that .
so at minus 271 degrees , colder than the room between the stars , these wires can hold the tension .
a few days later , we went to a buddhist temple in footscray and we sat around their sarg .
we told her stories , and we insured her that we were still with her .
at midnight , the monk came and said he had to close the sarg .
my mother asked us to touch her hand .
she asked the monk , &quot; why is your hand so warm , and the rest of her is so cold ? &quot;
&quot; because you &apos;ve been holding them this morning , &quot; he said .
&quot; you didn &apos;t let them go . &quot;
if there &apos;s a band in our family , then it goes through the women .
if you look who we were and how life shaped us , we can now see that the men who might have come into our lives would have come to the back of us .
the defeat would have been too simple .
in one of the connections , between nine and a half thousand magnets in the lhc , there was a factory turret .
now i &apos;d like my own kids , and i &apos;m still thinking about the boat .
who would ever wish one ?
yes , i &apos;m afraid of privilege , of ease , of legitimacy .
can i give you a bug in your life that &apos;s courageous to every wave , the inadequate , steady tuckers of the engine , the long horizon , that doesn &apos;t guarantee anything ?
i don &apos;t know .
but if i could give this and make it safe , i would do it .
and also , tans &apos;s mother is here in the fourth row or the fifth row .
i &apos;m here to share with you my photography .
is it even photography ?
because of course , this is a picture that you can &apos;t take with your camera .
and so the wires are lightly heating , and 13-thousand amputees suddenly encountered electrical resistance .
and yet , my interest in photography began when i received my first digital camera at the age of 15 .
i combined it with my earlier preference for drawing , but it was a little different , because using the camera was the process of planning .
and if you take a picture with a camera , the process ends when you press on the trigger .
so for me , photography seemed to be more about being in the right place at the right time .
i thought everybody could .
so i wanted to create something else , something where the process starts when the trigger is pressed .
photos like this : a construction site along a much riding road .
but it has an unexpected twist .
and yet , it &apos;s a realistic level .
or photos like this -- dark and colorful at the same time , but all with the common goal of keeping a realistic level .
the living ones give the spirits .
this was the result .
when i say reality , i mean photoreality .
because , of course , it &apos;s not something that you can really capture , but i always want it to look like it could have , in a photograph .
photos where you have to think for a moment to figure out the trick .
so it &apos;s more about capturing an idea than really a moment .
but what &apos;s the trick that makes it look realistic ?
is it about the details or the colors ?
is it about light ?
what creates the illusion ?
sometimes the perspective is the illusion .
but ultimately , it &apos;s about how we interpret the world and how it can be made available on a two-dimensional surface .
now , this is all even more amazing when you imagine that the magnets weigh over 20 tons and shifted by about 30 inches .
it &apos;s not what &apos;s realistic , it &apos;s what we think is realistic .
so i think the foundations are very simple .
i think of it as a puzzle of reality , where you can take different pieces and put them together to create an alternative reality .
and let me show you a simple example .
we have three perfectly imaginable physical objects that we can all identify with in a three-dimensional world .
but in a certain way combined , you can create something that looks still three-dimensional , as if it could exist .
but at the same time , we know that this is not possible .
so we &apos;re surveying our brains , because our brains just don &apos;t accept that it doesn &apos;t really make sense .
and i see the same process in combining photos .
it &apos;s really just about combining different realities .
so we damaged about 50 of the magnets .
so the things that make an image look realistic , i think it &apos;s the things that we don &apos;t think about , the things around us in our everyday lives .
but if we combine photographs , it &apos;s really important to think about it , because otherwise they just look kind of wrong .
so i would say that there are three simple rules to follow to achieve a realistic outcome .
as you can see , these are not three special images .
but combined , you can create something special like this .
so the first rule is that combined photos should have the same perspective .
secondly , combined photos should have the same type of lighting .
and these two pictures meet these two demands -- shot from the same height and the same type of lighting .
third , it &apos;s about making it impossible to distinguish where the individual images begin and end by connecting them seamlessly .
it &apos;s impossible to say how the photo was actually put together .
and they had to remove what we did .
so by comparing color , contrast and brightness to the edges to the individual images , photography deprivation , like field depth , degraded colors and disorders , we wipe the boundaries between the different images and make them look like a single photo , even though a picture can basically contain hundreds of levels .
here &apos;s another example .
you might think that &apos;s just a landscape , and the bottom part is manipulated .
but this picture is actually completely composed of photographs of different places .
i personally find that it &apos;s easier to create a place than find a place , because you don &apos;t have to go into compromise with the ideas in your head .
but it requires a lot of planning .
and when i had this idea in the winter , i knew that it would take me several months to plan it , to find the different places for the pieces of the puzzle .
for example , the fish had been taken on a glerial trip .
the bank is from a different place .
the underwater part comes from a quarry .
we reconditioned them , repaired them .
and yes , i even colored the house up on the island in red to make it look swedish .
so to get to a realistic outcome , it comes from me looking out on planning .
i always start with a sketch , an idea .
and then it &apos;s about the combination of the different images .
and here , every piece is very well planned .
and then if you take good images , the result can be pretty beautiful , and also quite realistic .
so there are all the tools there , and the only thing that &apos;s mimicking us is our imagination .
thank you .
i &apos;d like to talk to you about why so many electronic health projects are missing .
and i think the most important point is that we stopped talking to our patients .
they &apos;re all back on their way .
and one of the things we introduced at the radboud university was to hire a major audience .
and she &apos;s not particularly scientific about this -- she &apos;s putting a cup of coffee or tea and asking the patients , families , relatives , &quot; how is it ?
how can we help you ? &quot;
and we think we want to think that this is one of the main problems , why everyone -- maybe only most of the electronic health projects are missing : because we &apos;ve stopped listening .
this is my wlan-waage . this is a very simple thing .
she has a button , on / out .
and every morning i jump on it .
and yeah , i have a task , as you might recognize .
i put my job at 95 kilograms .
it works very easily : every time i jump on the scale , it also sends my data to google health .
by the end of march , the lhc will be able to work again .
and they &apos;re also called off from my general doctor , so that he can see where my weight problem is , not only at the moment that i need cardiology or something , but also with a look at the past .
but there &apos;s something else .
you might know this , i have over 4,000 followers on twitter .
so every morning , i &apos;m going to jump up to my wlan-waage , and people are talking to me before i &apos;m sitting in the car , &quot; for lunch , just a little salad today , lucien . &quot;
but this is the nicest thing that can happen , because this is the group compulsion , group compulsion , to help patients , because this could be used against obesity , or it could be used to remove patients to smoke .
but it could also be used to get people out of their chairs and get them to play together some kind of game to better control their health .
and next week , this comes to market .
there &apos;s going to be this little blood pressure device that you attach to an iphone or something .
and it will allow people to measure their blood pressure from home , send it to their doctor and share it with other people , for a little over 100 dollars .
at this point , the patients come in , and not only can they take control , they can be captain on their own ship , but they can also help us in the face of the challenges that are ahead of us , and the cost of the health care explosion , double-demand , and so on .
we &apos;re going to turn it on , and we &apos;re going to expect to be able to collect data in june or july , and we &apos;re going to continue our journey to figure out what the building blocks of the universe are .
make ways that are easy to use , and start to hug patients on the team .
and they can do that through these kinds of methods , but also crowdsourcing .
and one of the things that we &apos;ve done is i want to share with you through a short video .
we have all the navigation systems in our cars .
maybe even in our cell phones .
we know exactly where all the atm machines are around maastricht .
we know one more where all the gas stations are .
and sure enough , we can find fast food chains .
but where would the next aed be to help this patient ?
we asked about it , and no one knew .
well , of course , in a way , those accidents are again rejecting the debate about the value of science and engineering on these boundaries . it &apos;s easy to reject something like that .
nobody knew where the next life-saving aed was at that moment .
so what did we do ? we did crowdsourcing in the netherlands .
we built a website and asked a crowd of people , &quot; if you see an aed , please share with us where he is , &quot; because sometimes he &apos;s closed during business times , of course .
and over 10,000 aeds have already been reported in the netherlands .
the next step was to find the apps for this .
and we designed an ipad app .
we &apos;ve developed an app for layar , augmented reality , to find these aeds .
and if you &apos;re in a city like maastricht and someone collapses , you can use your iphone , and within the next few weeks your microsoftware cell phone to find the next aed that can save lives .
and today , we want to do this not just as aed4u , as the product is called , but also as aed4us .
and we want to take this to a global level .
i think the fact that it &apos;s so hard , the fact that we reach beyond our limits , is the value of things like the lhc .
and we &apos;re asking our colleagues around the world , from other universities , to help us to behave like nodes to crowdsource these aeds around the world .
and if you &apos;re on vacation and someone collapses , whether it &apos;s your own relationship or anyone else , you can find an aed like that .
the other thing we want to ask for is that companies around the world are helping us confirm these aeds .
these could be carriers , or technicians , for example , just to make sure that the melted aed is still in its place .
please help us , and try to not only improve health , but take control of it .
thank you .
today , i &apos;m going to talk about unexpected discoveries .
i work in solar technology .
and my little startup wants us to force ourselves to protect the environment by ...
... pay attention to crowdsourcing .
the spirits can be described by under the big water , answers to the rhythm of dance , to displace the soul of the living temporary , so that the acolyth becomes the god for a short shiny moment .
i &apos;m going to leave my final words to an english scientist . humphrey davy , who , i think , when he defused the useless experiments of his apprenticeship , his apprentice was michael faraday , said this : &quot; nothing is so dangerous for the development of the human mind than to assume that our scientific ideas are final , that there is no mystery in nature , that our triumphs are full , and that there are no new worlds to conquer . &quot;
here &apos;s a short video of what we do .
oh . a moment .
it might take time for it to be invited .
now -- we can just jump this out -- i &apos;ll just jump the video instead ...
no .
that &apos;s not ...
okay .
solar is ...
oh , my time &apos;s over ?
okay . thank you very much .
thank you .
so a few years ago , i started a program to get the stars in technology and design to take a year off and work in an environment that &apos;s pretty much everything they actually hate , we let them work in the government .
the program is called &quot; code for america , &quot; and it &apos;s a little bit like the geeky peacekeepers .
we select some fellows every year , and we let them work with city administrations .
instead of sending them to the third world , we &apos;re going to send them to the city users .
and there they developed great apps , worked with urban collaborators .
but what they really do is show what &apos;s possible with technology today .
so , meet al .
al is a hydrant in the city of boston .
here it looks like he &apos;s looking for a date , but what he &apos;s really looking for is someone who &apos;s freeing him up when he &apos;s inserted , because he knows he &apos;s not very good at fighting the fire when he &apos;s covered by a meter of snow .
how did he get to look for help in this particular way ?
i &apos;m a writer .
we had a team of fellows in boston last year , and we had the code for america .
they were there in february , and it did a lot of work last february .
and they realized that the city would never open up these hydrants .
but one particular fellow , a man named erik sophiels-ober , noticed something else , and that was that the residents were scrambling up the sidewalks , right in front of those parts .
so he did what any good developer would do , he wrote an app .
it &apos;s a nice little app where you can adopt a hydrant .
you agree with him for free when it snows .
if you do that , you can give him a name , and he called the first al .
if you don &apos;t do that , somebody can take it away from you .
so there &apos;s a nice little game dynamic .
writing books is my profession , but it &apos;s more than that , of course .
this is a modest little app .
it &apos;s probably the smallest of the 21 apps that the fellows wrote last year .
but it does something that no other government technology does .
it &apos;s spreading rapidly .
there &apos;s this guy in the i.t. section of the city of honolulu , who has seen that he could use this app , not for snow , but for the citizens to adopt tsunami sirens .
it &apos;s very important that these tsunami sirens work , but people steal the batteries .
so he got the citizens to check them .
and then seattle decided to use the app to get the citizens to clean the clogged gullys .
and chicago just introduced it so that people would open up the buerstries when it snows .
we now know nine cities that are planning to use this app .
it &apos;s also my great , lifelong love and fascination .
and it &apos;s spread frictionless , organic , of course .
if you know something about government technology , you know it doesn &apos;t usually work .
it usually takes a few years to get software .
we had a team that worked on a project in boston last year that took three people two and a half months .
it was about a method that parents can figure out which are the right public schools for their children .
we were told later that if it had taken over the normal channels , it would have taken over two years , and it would have cost over two million dollars .
and that &apos;s nothing yet .
there &apos;s a project in california right now that the taxpayer has cost two billion dollars so far , and it doesn &apos;t work .
and there are projects like this at every level of the government .
so an app , which is written in a few days , and then spreads from seldom , is a kind of a grant in front of the bug on the government &apos;s institution .
and i don &apos;t expect that to ever change .
it shows how the government could work better -- not more like a private company , how many people think it should .
and not even like a tech company , but rather like the internet itself .
and that means free access , which means open and productive .
and that &apos;s important .
but what &apos;s more important about this app is that it represents a new generation that is tackling the problem of government -- not as the problem of a wired institution , but as a problem of collective action .
and that &apos;s a very good news , because it turns out we &apos;re very good at collective action with digital technology .
now there &apos;s a big community of people making the tools that we need to actually put things together .
it &apos;s not just &quot; code for america &quot; fellows , there are hundreds of people all over the country who are standing up and writing government apps every day in their own communities .
they didn &apos;t give up the government .
they &apos;re terribly frustrated with it , but they don &apos;t complain about it , they repair it .
however , recently , something weird has happened in my life and my career , which has led me to completely rethink my relationship with this work .
and these people know something that we &apos;ve lost from our eyes .
and that &apos;s when you forget all of your feelings about politics and the snake in the workforce and all the other things that we &apos;re really excited about , is government , at the core , in the words of tim o &apos;reilly , &quot; what we do together that we can &apos;t do alone . &quot;
today , a lot of people have given up the government .
and if you &apos;re one of those people , i ask you to think about it , because things change .
the politics doesn &apos;t change ; the government is in change .
and because the government ultimately exhausts its power from us -- remember , &quot; we the people ? &quot; -- as we think about it , it will affect how this change is happening .
i didn &apos;t know very much about government when i started this program .
and like a lot of people , i thought the government was all about choosing people into an office .
now , after two years , i &apos;ve come to the conclusion that it &apos;s all about community communities , about thylacines .
this is the call center for service and information .
and this strange event was that i recently wrote a book -- a biography called sophieat , pray , love -- which , unlike all my previous books , for some reason , went out into the world and became a big mega-event , international best seller thing .
that &apos;s where you usually get out when you call in your city 311 .
if you ever have the chance to work in your urban call center , like our fellow scott silverman , as part of the program -- in fact , they all do -- you &apos;ll see that the people who call the government for a lot of different problems , including that there &apos;s a thylacine in their house .
so scott gets this fruit .
he tips &quot; thylacine &quot; into the official database .
and he doesn &apos;t really have an idea . he starts with the animal beginner .
and finally , he says , &quot; look , can you just open all the doors in your house and play very loud music and see if the livestock is sweeping ? &quot;
and that worked . applause for scott .
but that wasn &apos;t the end of the thylacines .
boston doesn &apos;t just have a call center .
it has an app , a web and cell phone app , called citizens connect .
the result is that , no matter where i come from , i &apos;m treated as if i was refused to the demise .
we didn &apos;t write this app .
this is the work of very smart people at the office of the new urban mechanics in boston .
one day -- this is an actual report -- came in : &quot; thylacine rat in my trash bin . can &apos;t tell if it &apos;s dead .
how do i get them away ? &quot;
but what happens to citizens connect is different .
scott was talking about human to human .
but on citizens connect , everything is public , so everyone can see it .
and in this case , it saw a neighbor .
and the next entry that we got was , &quot; i went over there , found the trash bin behind the house .
thylacine rat ? yes . alive ? yap .
seriously , refused to the demise .
turned the garbage bin on the page . went home .
good night , sweet thylacine rat . &quot;
pretty simple .
that &apos;s great . that &apos;s where the digital hits the physical .
and it &apos;s also a good example of how the government is getting into the crowdsourcing .
but it &apos;s also a great example of government as a platform .
and i don &apos;t mean necessarily a technical definition of the platform .
i &apos;m talking more about a platform for people to help themselves and to help others .
a citizen helped another citizen , but the government played a central role here .
they connected these two people .
so the voodooists like to say , &quot; you know , you go to church and talk about god .
for example , you get very concerned about me and say , &quot; don &apos;t you fear you &apos;re never going to overcome this success ?
and you could have connected them to government services , if they had been needed , but a neighbor is a far better and cheaper alternative to government services .
if one neighbor helps the other , we strengthen our communities .
if we call the animal catcher , it costs a lot of money .
one of the most important things is that we have to think about it is that government is not the same as politics .
and most people understand that , but they think that one is the input of the other .
that our contribution to the system is to choose .
how many times did we choose a political leader -- and sometimes we used a lot of energy to choose a new political leader -- and then we recline , and we expect the government , reflects our values , and our needs , and then we don &apos;t change much ?
that &apos;s because the government is like a further ocean , and politics is the top 15 inches .
and what &apos;s below that is what we call bureaucracy .
and we use this word with such contempt .
don &apos;t you worry that you write your whole life on and never create a book that anyone in the world cares about ? never again ?
but it &apos;s this contempt that makes this thing that we own , and that we pay for , something that works against us , something else , and then we made ourselves .
people seem to think , politics is sexy .
if we want this institution to work for us , we have to make bureaucracy sexy .
because that &apos;s where the actual government work is happening .
we have to rely on the machine of the government .
so the occupation movement has done it .
did you see these guys ?
it &apos;s a group of troubled citizens who wrote a very detailed 325-page report , which is an answer to the sec-memo about the legislation of financial reform .
that &apos;s not politically active , that &apos;s bureaucratic .
now , for those of us who have given up the government , it &apos;s time that we think about the world we want to leave our children behind .
okay , that &apos;s really courageous .
you have to imagine the enormous challenges that they have to face .
do we really believe that we have to achieve what we have to do without improving the institution that can act on behalf of all of us ?
a government is absolutely necessary , but it needs to be more efficient .
the good news is that technology makes it possible to reconstruct the function of government in a way that can actually achieve something by strengthening society .
and there &apos;s a generation that &apos;s grown up with the internet , and that knows that it &apos;s not that hard to do things together , you just have to build systems .
now the average age of our field is 28 , so i &apos;m , unfortunately , almost one generation older than most of you .
this is a generation that grew up seeing its voice for granted .
they &apos;re not fighting this battle that we &apos;re all fighting about who &apos;s allowed to speak ; they &apos;re all allowed to speak .
you can make your opinion on , on every channel at any time , and you do .
so , when you &apos;re faced with the problem of government , don &apos;t care so much about using your voices .
but it would be worse if i didn &apos;t remember that over 20 years ago , when i was a teenager , when i first told me that i wanted to be a writer , i was faced with the same kind of anxious response .
they use their hands .
they use their hands to write applications that improve government &apos;s work .
and these apps let &apos;s use our hands to improve our communities .
this could be to free-sniff a hydrant , to hunters , to turn a trash can with a thylacine rat .
and sure enough , we could have released these hydrants all the time , and a lot of people do that .
but these apps are like little digital memories that we &apos;re not just consumers , and we &apos;re not just consumers of government who are paying taxes and receiving services .
we are more than that , we are citizens .
and we &apos;re not going to improve government until we improve citizenship .
so the question i have for all of you here : when it comes to the big , important things that we need to do together , all together , are we just going to be a lot of voices , or are we going to be a lot of hands ?
thank you .
people said , don &apos;t you fear never succeeding ?
usually my role in explaining to people how wonderful the new technologies that have come up are going to be , and i thought , since i &apos;m here among friends , i would tell you what i really think , and also try to look back and understand what &apos;s really going on here , with these incredible jumps forward , which are so fast that we can hardly keep up .
i &apos;m going to start by just showing you a single , boring slide .
... if you could just show the slide for a second .
this is a slide that i randomly chose from my folder .
i &apos;m not talking about the details of the slide , but rather , the general form .
this slide shows data from an analysis of us about the performance of risc processors compared to the performance of a local area network .
what &apos;s interesting here is that this slide , like some other ones that we often meet in our field , is a kind of semi-logarithmic curve .
in other words , every step here corresponds to a potential in the performance scale .
and this is a novelty that we have to use this guy &apos;s scale on semi-logarithmic curves in the field of technology .
something very strange is going on here .
are you not afraid that the humiliation of a saying will kill you ?
this is basically what i &apos;m going to talk about here .
so , if you could turn on the lights .
a little bit brighter , because i &apos;m going to draw something on the paper here .
now , why do we draw graphs in technology on semi-logarithmic curves ?
the reason for that is , if i were to draw it on a normal curve , where , say , these are the years , so the timeline of a kind , and this is a random measure of the technology that i want to show with a graph , the graph will be silly .
they look like this .
and that doesn &apos;t tell us much .
now , if i wanted to record another technology , let &apos;s say a transportation technology , it would come in on the semi-logarithmic scale , very unreasonable , in the form of a flat line .
but if something like this happens , it changes the qualitative circumstances .
so if the transportation technology was going as fast as the microprocessor technology was going on , we could get into a taxi in 30 seconds , and in 30 seconds we would be in tokyo .
are you not afraid that you &apos;re going to go after this craftsmanship and never come out of it , and that you &apos;re going to die on a scrambled dreams -- your mouth filled with the bitter ashes of failure ?
but it doesn &apos;t go that fast .
this has never happened before in the history of technology development , this kind of recursive growth , where the scale is increasing exponentially every few years .
the question i want to ask you now is , if you look at these exponential curves , you see , they don &apos;t go on forever .
it &apos;s not possible that everything is evolving forever and forever as fast as it is now .
there are two options .
either it &apos;s going to be a classic s-curve like this , until something completely new comes along , or it &apos;s going to happen here .
that &apos;s kind of it .
well , i &apos;m an optimist , so i think something like this is going to happen .
if that &apos;s true , that means we &apos;re in the middle of a transition right now .
we &apos;re here on this line , in a transition from the world to a new kind of world .
it &apos;s like , you know .
so the question i want to ask , and i often ask myself , is how is this new world going to be ?
what is this new state that the world is slowly accepting ?
because the transition seems to be very , very confusing when you &apos;re in the middle .
when i was a kid , there was the future somewhere in 2000 , and people would often talk about what would happen in 2000 .
now we have a conference where people talk about the future , and you realize that the future is still at 2000 .
further than that , we don &apos;t go .
so in other words , the future has shrinked by a year since i &apos;ve been in this world every year .
i think the reason for that is that we realize that there &apos;s anything going on .
the transition is happening . we can all feel it .
and we know that it just doesn &apos;t make sense to try to look at the future 30 or 50 years , because everything will be so different that a simple projection of what we &apos;re doing now simply doesn &apos;t make sense .
the answer -- the short answer to all of these questions is : yeah .
now , i want to talk about what this might be , this transition that we &apos;re in right now .
in order to do this , i &apos;m going to first talk about some other things that really don &apos;t have to do with technology or computers .
because in order to really understand this , we have to step back and look at the thing on a longer scale of time .
and that &apos;s what i want to look at on the time scale of the earth &apos;s life .
i think the overall picture makes sense if you divide it into some billion-dollar steps .
so let &apos;s go back , and that &apos;s 2.5 billion years . the earth was a big , sterile stone clump with a lot of chemicals floating on it .
now , if you look at the way these chemicals were organized , it gives us a pretty good picture of how they were doing this .
i think there are theories that are starting to understand how everything started with rna , but i &apos;m going to tell you a simplistic story of what is that , at that time , little oil droplet would sniff around , which contains different kinds of recipes for chemicals .
some of these oil droplet contains a special combination of chemicals that allowed them to integrate other chemicals from the outside and grow .
everybody who was like this started to divide .
yeah , i &apos;m afraid of all these things .
these little oil droplet were the most primitive cell form in the sense .
but these oil droplet were not about living in the current sense , because each one of them was just a little random recipe of chemicals .
and every time it divided , the found chemicals have spread out to unequal amounts .
so each droplet was a little different .
in fact , the droplet grew , which had an optimal composition for growth , faster than others , and integrated more and more chemicals from the outside and divided faster .
so these tend to survive longer , and they multiplied in a larger scale .
so this is just a very simple chemical form of life , but what &apos;s more interesting is when these droplet learned a trick about abstraction .
in some way that we don &apos;t quite understand , these droplet have learned the ability to write information down .
they &apos;ve learned to store the recipe of the cell as information in a particular chemical form , which we call dna .
in other words , they found a way in this mindless , evolutionary way that allowed them to write down what they were made of , so that this information could be stored and copied .
we dance in the temple and we become god . &quot;
and i always had them .
the amazing thing about this is that this way of storing information over the time of 2.5 billion years that it came out was the same .
in fact , the recipe for us is our genes , from the exact same code and the same type of writing .
and every being uses exactly the same letters and the same code .
we &apos;re so far that , just for the sake of pleasure , we can write ourselves in this code .
and i &apos;ve got 100 micrograms of a white pulver that i &apos;m trying to keep in airports from security workers .
it &apos;s -- what i &apos;ve done is i &apos;ve taken this code -- the code is made up of normal letters that we use to symbolize -- and i &apos;ve written my business card on a piece of dna , and i &apos;ve amplified it 10 euro22 times .
so if somebody wants a hundred million copies of my business card , i have enough for everyone in this room and even for everyone in the world , and it &apos;s right here .
if i had actually been an egoist , i would have written it on a virus and released it into the room .
so what &apos;s the next step ?
the subscription of dna was an interesting step .
and i &apos;m much more afraid of things that no one would ever know .
and that &apos;s what made these cells -- that made them happy for another billion years .
but then another very interesting step happened , where things became completely different , which is that these cells started to communicate and exchange information , so that communities emerged from cells .
i don &apos;t know if you knew that , but bacteria can actually exchange their dna .
and that &apos;s why , for example , the constant resistance of antibiotics is growing .
some bacteria have figured out how to stay away from penicillin and have written this information with other bacteria into the dna , and now we have lots of bacteria that are resistant to penicillin because the bacteria communicate with each other .
this communication now allowed for the reasons of communities that were in a certain sense in the same boat ; they were synergetic .
so they either survived together , or they went together , which meant that if a community was successful , all the individuals of the community were repeated more often and preferred by evolution .
the transition site is now where these communities are so close together that they decided to write the recipe for the whole community into a drawing chain on the dna .
and the next interesting phase took about another billion years .
at this point , we have multi-cellular communities , communities of many different cell types , which are together as a single organism .
like algae -- and other frightening things .
in fact , we &apos;re also such a multi-cellular community .
we have a lot of cells that are no longer put on their own .
your skin cells are useless without heart cells , muscle cells , brain cells and so on .
so these communities began to evolve , so that the level at which evolution took place was no longer the single cell , but was the whole cell community , which we call organism .
the next step is now within these communities .
the cell communities started to abstract information again .
and they developed special structures that didn &apos;t do anything but process information within the organism .
and these are the neural structures .
so the neurons are the information processing system that these cell communities have built .
they started educating specialists within the community , special structures , which were responsible for learning , understanding and holding information .
but when it comes to writing , i &apos;ve been thinking about it recently , and i ask myself , why ?
and this was the brain and the nervous system of these communities .
this gave them an evolutionary advantage .
because at this point , an individual -- learning happened within the time period of a single organism &apos;s lifespan , instead of that evolutionary period .
so for example , an organism could learn not to eat a particular fruit because it tasted bad and made it sick , the last time he ate it .
now this could happen within the lifespan of a single organism , whereas it took hundreds of thousands of years , because this information had to be learned evolutionarily by the individuals who died because of this fruit , because these information processing structures were not there yet .
so the nervous system has the evolutionary process with these particular information structures , because evolution could now happen within an individual .
it could be within a time learning framework .
what happened after that was that the individual organisms found a way to communicate with each other .
for example , the most subtle version of this communication that we know is human language .
it &apos;s a pretty amazing invention when you think about it .
is that reasonable ?
i have a very complicated , messy and confused idea in my head .
i &apos;m sitting here , and i &apos;m basically giving gruesome sounds of me , hoping to create a similarly confused idea in your head that has a certain similarity with my original idea .
so we take something very complicated , we turn it into sound , a sequence of sound , and we produce something very complicated in the head of others .
so this allows us to work again as a unified organism .
and what we actually did , we , humanity , is we started abstracting .
we go through the same stages that multiple cell organisms have gone through -- that process the abstraction of our methods to capture data .
the invention of language , for example , was a small step in this direction .
telephones , computers , video dancers , cd-roms and so on , are all our specialized mechanisms that we &apos;ve built in our community to be able to handle this information .
and it connects us all together to something that &apos;s much bigger , and it &apos;s also able to evolve faster than we &apos;ve been .
so today , evolution can happen in the time period of microseconds .
is it logical that someone should be expected to be afraid of doing the work that they &apos;re calling ?
you also saw tys , little evolutionary example , where he showed a little bit of evolution in the convolution program , right in front of your eyes .
so now we &apos;ve refueled the time scales .
the first steps in the story that i told you took a billion years per piece .
the next steps , like the nervous system and the brain , took several hundred million years .
then the next steps , like language and so on , took less than a million years .
and these next steps , like electronics , seem to take a few decades .
the process feeds itself and becomes , i think , auto-catalytic is the word for it -- if something increases its speed of change .
the more it changes , the faster it changes .
and i think that &apos;s what we &apos;re seeing here in this explosive curve .
we see the process that feeds on itself .
and what &apos;s going on with the creative enterprises that they make us insecure about the mutual state of mind -- in a way that other professions don &apos;t do ?
i live professionally from building computers , and i know that i couldn &apos;t use the mechanism i use to build computers without the recent advances in computer technology .
my current work is to design objects with such a high complexity that it &apos;s impossible for me to design them in the traditional sense .
i don &apos;t know what every single transistor is doing in the connection machine .
it has billions of them .
what i do instead , and what the designers of thinking machines do , is we think at a certain level of abstraction , we give this machine , and the machine makes it something that exceeds our skills far beyond , better and faster than we could ever do it .
and it does it in part with ways that we don &apos;t even really understand so far .
one way that &apos;s particularly interesting , and which i &apos;ve been using a lot lately is evolution itself .
and we &apos;re going to install an evolutionary process in the machine that &apos;s going on in the microsecond area .
to give you an example , in the most extreme cases , we can create a program that comes from random instructions .
we say , &quot; computers , please generate a hundred million randomly selected sequences of instructions .
my father , for example , was a chemist , and i can &apos;t remember a situation in his 40 years as a chemist , where he was asked if he was afraid to be a chemist .
now , please run all of these randomly chosen instructions , run all the programs , and then eventually choose the ones that are closest to my prescriptions . &quot;
so in other words , i define what i want first .
let &apos;s say i want to put numbers together , that would be a simple example that i &apos;ve already used for it .
so find programs that can be the earliest numbers .
of course , the chance of randomly chosen instructions is very small that , by accident , they &apos;re going to be providing numbers , so i don &apos;t think any of the instructions are actually going to do that .
but one of them may be lucky to put two numbers in the right order .
now i say , &quot; computers , take the 10 percent of the sequences that have come the closest to my prescriptions .
store it , delete the rest .
now , reproducers are all the remaining ones that have best sorted the numbers .
and this is with a recombination method , analog to reproduction . &quot;
with your chemical blockage , john -- how do you do that ?
take two programs , and they produce children through the exchange of their subroutines , and the kids inherit the features of the subroutines from the two programs .
so now i have a new generation of programs that have come out of combinations of programs that have come a little closer to the premises than others .
say , &quot; please repeat this process . &quot;
rating them again .
maybe lead some mutations .
and try the whole thing again with another generation .
all of these generations take just a few milliseconds .
and so i can make an evolution go through for millions of years in the computer in a few minutes , or in more complicated cases , a few hours .
and finally , i get programs that numbers can perfectly sort .
in fact , these programs are so much more efficient than any program i could have ever written by hand .
it just didn &apos;t occur , you know ?
and when i look at these programs , i can &apos;t tell you how they work .
i tried to understand them .
they &apos;re obscure and strange programs .
but they do the job .
i know and i &apos;m sure they &apos;re doing the job because they &apos;re coming out of a series of hundreds of thousands of programs that have done the job .
because their lives depended on whether they were doing the job right .
i sat in a 747 with marvin minsky , and he pulled out a map and he says , &quot; oh look . look at that .
it says , &apos; this airplane is made up of hundreds of thousands of little parts that work together to make your flight safer . &apos; doesn &apos;t that make you more confident ? &quot;
we know that a process of development is not optimal when it becomes too complicated .
so we &apos;re starting to rely on computers for a process that &apos;s very different from classical engineering .
and because you &apos;re obsessed , you &apos;re taken from the mind . how can you be harmed ?
but to be fair -- the chemical group over the centuries did not get the call of alcohol addictive manic depressed people .
it allows us to do things with a much higher complexity than the normal methods would allow us to produce .
and yet , we don &apos;t quite understand the possibility of that .
so , in a way , technology is overwhelming us .
now we use these programs to make the computers much faster , so that we &apos;re able to do these processes even faster .
so there &apos;s a feedback .
it gets faster and faster , and i think that &apos;s why it seems so confusing .
because all these new technologies today are feeding themselves from themselves .
we &apos;re going to take off .
we got to a point where the analog is at the time , when one cell organisms evolved into multiple cell organisms .
so we &apos;re the amoeba , and we can &apos;t quite figure out what the hell we &apos;re actually creating here .
but we writers seem to have this kind of call , but not just the writers , but the creative of all genres , it seems to have this reputation to be mentally unstable .
we &apos;re in the middle of this transition point .
but i really believe that something else comes after us .
i think it &apos;s very high to say that we &apos;re the end product of evolution .
and i think all of us here are part of the creation of whatever comes next .
now , lunch is before lunch , and i think i &apos;m going to stop here before i &apos;m chosen .
my story starts right here in rajasthan , about two years ago .
i was under the star sky in the desert with sufi singers mukhtiar ali .
we talked about the fact that nothing has changed since the time of the ancient indian epos mahabharata .
if we wanted to travel indians then , we would jump into a car and swirl over the sky .
now we &apos;re doing this with airplanes .
all you have to do is look at the bitter death numbers of really great minds from the 20th century , who died young and often by their own hand .
at the time , when the great indian warrior prince arjuna durst , he took a bow , shot in the ground and water came out .
now we &apos;re doing this with drillers and machines .
we came to the conclusion that magic and magic were replaced by machines .
that made me really sad .
i got a little scared of technology .
it scared me that i could lose the ability to enjoy the sunset without camera and without tweet to my friends .
i found that technology should make magic possible and not kill .
when i was a little girl , my grandfather gave me his little silver pocket watch .
this piece of 50-year-old technology became the most magical thing for me .
it became a golden access to a world of pirates and miserable ships and images in my mind .
and even those who don &apos;t actually have suicide seemed to have been really neglected by their talents .
it seemed to me that our fancy clocks and cameras would keep us from dreaming .
they kept us from being inspired .
and so i went into the technology world to see how i could use them to make magic rather than kill .
at 16 , i started to illustrate books .
when i saw the ipad , i saw it as a device for storytelling that can connect readers all over the world .
it can tell how we hold it .
it can know where we are .
it brings together images and text , and animation , sound and touch .
the storytelling needs more and more senses .
but what do we do with this ?
norman mailer said just before his death in his last interview : each of my books killed me a little bit further .
i &apos;m just going to go to khoya , an interactive ipad app .
it says , &quot; put your fingers on every light . &quot;
and so -- here it says , &quot; this box belongs ... &quot; i write my name .
and i become a character in the book .
and then again , a letter comes down for me -- and the ipad knows where i live -- it &apos;s really addressed to me .
the child in me is really excited about this kind of opportunity .
i talked a lot about magic .
i don &apos;t mean magic and kites , i mean the magic of childhood , the ideas that we all had as children .
fireflies in a glass always found me quite exciting .
so here you have to tip the ipad out and let the fireflies out .
it &apos;s an extraordinary statement that you can make about your life &apos;s work .
and the light bulb through the rest of the book .
another idea that fascinated me as a child is that a whole galaxy can be put in a single marble .
and so every book here , and every world , becomes a little marble that i put here to the magic device in the device .
and this opens up a map .
fantasy books have always had maps , but these cards were static .
this map is growing and lighting and serving for orientation in the rest of the book .
it &apos;s also in other places of the book .
i go in here .
it &apos;s also important for me to create something that is indian , but also very timely .
these are the apsaras .
but we don &apos;t even listen to somebody say this , because we &apos;ve known this kind of statement for so long . somehow , we &apos;ve been so internal and collectively accepted that creativity and suffering are somehow related , and that art -- at the end -- always leads to the soul .
we &apos;ve all heard of feen and nymphen , but how many people outside india know their indian colleagues , the apsaras ?
the poor apsaras were trapped in indras for thousands of years in an old muffy book .
and we bring them back , in a contemporary history for children .
it &apos;s a story that is dealing with new issues , like the environmental crisis .
the issue about the environmental crisis , a big problem over the last 10 years , is that kids are sitting in their rooms , on their computers , without going out .
but now , with mobile technology , we can take our children into the natural world with their technology .
in an interaction of the book , you &apos;re sent to a search , and you have to go out and collect , with the camera of the ipad , images of natural objects .
as a child , i had collections of sticks , stones , tiles and shells .
somehow , the kids don &apos;t do it anymore .
this childhood ritual is brought back . you have to go out to take a picture of a flower in a chapter and tag it .
the question i want to ask everyone here today is , is this idea completely fine for you ?
in another chapter , you have to photograph and tag a piece of tree mri .
so you actually create a digital collection of photos that you can then put online .
a child in london shows the picture of a food and says , &quot; oh , i &apos;ve seen a fox today . &quot;
a child in india says , &quot; i &apos;ve seen a monkey today . &quot;
this creates a kind of social network around a digital collection of photos that you actually took .
there are a variety of ways that magic connects the world and technology .
in the next book , we &apos;re planning an interaction where you use the video of the ipad and you see , through augmented reality , an animation of elevators that appear on a plant in front of the house .
at one point , the screen filled with leaves .
you have to make the sound of the wind , blow it away and read the rest of the book .
we all move to a world where the natural forces of technology can get closer and closer to the magic and technology .
do you feel comfortable with it ? because with only one centimeter away , i don &apos;t feel comfortable with this notion at all .
we use the energy of the sun .
we bring our children and we get closer to the natural world and to the magic , fun and the love of our childhood through the simple medium of a story .
thank you .
this is really an extraordinary honor for me .
i spend most of my time with people studying , prisons or death cells .
i spend most of my time with the most socially weakened in the social building settlements and in places where there &apos;s a lot of hopelessness .
to be here at ted , to see and to hear how stimulating that is , i &apos;ve been very powerful .
in the short time here , i realized one thing : ted has an identity .
you can say things that have influence in the world .
and sometimes , when something comes to ted , it gets a meaning and power that it wouldn &apos;t otherwise have .
i find them disgusting .
i say that because i think identity is very important .
we &apos;ve seen some fantastic presentations .
i think we &apos;ve learned that the words of a teacher matter , but that the words of a dedicated teacher are particularly meaningful .
as a doctor , you can do good , but as a nurturing doctor , you can do more .
and that &apos;s why i want to talk about the power of identity .
i didn &apos;t learn that in my work as a lawyer , by the way .
i learned this from my grandmother .
i became big in a family , a traditional african-american household , dominated by a matriarch , and that matriarch was my grandmother .
she was a keyboard , strong woman , she had an impact .
she had the last word in every family argument .
look at these amazing demonstrations : voodoo acolyths in a trance state that includes glowing coal without burning , an amazing illustration of the ability of the mind to influence the body in such a way that it stops when it &apos;s put into a state of extreme arousal .
and i find them dangerous . and i don &apos;t want to watch them take over to the next century .
she was also the origin of many arguments in our family .
she was the daughter of a slave family .
their parents were born in virginia in the 1840s as slaves .
she was born around 1880 , and the experience of slavery shaped her worldview very strongly .
my grandmother was strong , but she was also loving .
when i met her as a little boy , she came up to me and hugged me .
she pushed me so hard that i could barely breathe , and then she let me go .
one or two hours later , when i met her , she came up to me and she said , &quot; bryan , are you still feeling my hug ? &quot;
and when i said , &quot; no , &quot; she hugged me again . when i said &quot; yes , &quot; she left me alone .
she was doing something that you always wanted to be close to her .
i think it &apos;s better if we encourage our great creative encouragement .
the only problem was that she had 10 children .
my mother was the youngest of her 10 children .
sometimes , if i wanted to spend time with her , it was hard to get her attention .
my cousins were running all around .
i remember , i must have been eight or nine that i woke up one morning and went to the living room . all my cousins were running around .
my grandmother was sitting at the end of the room and staring at me .
first of all , i thought that was a game .
i looked at her and smiled , but she looked very serious .
this was 15 or 20 minutes . then she stood up and she came over to me . she took me by the hand and she said , &quot; come on , bryan . you and i , we have to talk . &quot;
i remember it was yesterday .
and i know , definitely , that for me -- in my situation -- it would be very dangerous to start to sort of smash this dark path of conjecture down , especially in the circumstance in which i &apos;m in my career right now .
i &apos;ll never forget it .
she took me out and said , &quot; bryan , i &apos;m going to tell you something , but you have to promise you don &apos;t say it . &quot;
i said , &quot; promise , oma . &quot;
she said , &quot; honesty ? &quot; i said , &quot; yes . &quot;
she sat me down , and she looked at me , and she said , &quot; i want you to know i &apos;ve seen you . &quot;
she said , &quot; i think you &apos;re special . &quot;
she said , &quot; i think you can do anything you want to do . &quot;
i &apos;ll never forget that .
and then she said , &quot; you just have to promise me three things , bryan . &quot;
i said , &quot; ok , grandmother . &quot;
that means -- look , i &apos;m pretty young . i &apos;m only about 40 years old .
she said , &quot; first of all , i promise you will always love your mom . &quot;
she said , &quot; your mom is my baby , and you have to promise that you will always care about her . &quot;
i adored my mother , so i said , &quot; yes , grandmother , i &apos;m going to do that . &quot;
and then she said , &quot; the next thing i want you to do is to do the right thing , &quot; even though it &apos;s hard to do the right thing . &quot;
i thought , &quot; yeah , grandmother . i promise . &quot;
and finally , she said , &quot; the last thing you have to promise me is that you will never drink alcohol . &quot;
well , i was nine years old , and so i said , &quot; yeah , grandmother . i promise . &quot;
i grew up on the land , in the old , rural south , and i have a brother who &apos;s a year older and a year younger sister .
when i was about 14 or 15 , one day my brother came home and brought this sixpack of beer with a snapshot , my sister and i went to the forest with us .
we were just silly around there as well as anything else .
i may have another 40 years of work in me .
then he took a swallow of beer and offered one to my sister , and she assumed , and then they offered one to me .
i said , &quot; no , no , no . ok . just do it . i don &apos;t want a beer . &quot;
my brother said , &quot; well , do it . we &apos;re doing it now , you &apos;re doing everything we do .
i had something , your sister had something . go drink a beer . &quot;
i said , &quot; i don &apos;t want to . just do it . do it . &quot;
my brother stared at me .
he said , &quot; what &apos;s going on with you ? well , drink something . &quot;
and then he looked at me in the face , and he said , &quot; oh no , you &apos;re not still going crazy because of the conversation with grandmother ? &quot;
i said , &quot; what are you talking about ? &quot;
he said , &quot; grandma tells all the grandchildren that they &apos;re special . &quot;
and it &apos;s extremely likely that all i &apos;m going to write from now on is the world as the work that came from after i did my last book , right ?
i was devastated .
i &apos;m going to tell you something .
i probably shouldn &apos;t do that .
this may be broadcast publicly .
i &apos;m 52 years old , and i confess that i &apos;ve never drank a drop of alcohol .
i &apos;m not saying that because i think it &apos;s virtuous . i &apos;m saying that because identity means .
if we create the right kind of identity , we can tell people around us things that they don &apos;t believe first .
we can get them to do things that they thought they couldn &apos;t do .
of course , my grandmother would say all her grandchildren are special .
my grandfather was in jail during the prohibition .
i &apos;m saying it , because we &apos;re all kind of friends here -- it &apos;s extremely likely that my greatest success is behind me .
my uncles died of alcohol infected diseases .
and she believed that these were the topics that we had to care about .
i tried to say something about our justice system .
this country is different from 40 years ago .
in 1972 , 300,000 people were in prisoners and in prison .
today it &apos;s 2.3 million .
the united states today has the highest incarceration rate in the world .
seven million people are left on currency , or with conditional punishment .
in my opinion , mass incarceration has fundamentally changed our world .
in social weak and black parts of the population , there is despair and hopelessness because of these changes .
oh , jesus , what a thought !
one in three male black men between 18 and 30 is in prison , in prison , abandoned or in conditions of punishment .
in urban communities all over the country -- from los angeles to philadelphia , baltimore to washington -- 50 to 60 percent of all black men are either in prison , in prison , abandoned or in conditional punishment .
but our system is not only shaped by questions that have to do with racial belonging , but it &apos;s also caused by poverty .
we have a legal system in this country that treats them much better if they &apos;re rich and guilty than poor and innocent .
wealth , not debt , affects the outcome .
and yet , we seem to be quite satisfied .
a policy of fear and anger has convinced us that these problems are not our problems .
we &apos;ve lost touch .
i think that &apos;s interesting .
there are some very interesting developments .
these are the kinds of thoughts that can get someone to start drinking gin at nine o &apos;clock in the morning , and i don &apos;t want to .
my home state , alabama , permanently , pulls the right to vote when they &apos;re sentenced .
here , today in alabama , 34 percent of the male black population has lost their right to vote all the time .
we predict that in 10 years , the rate of recognition of civil rights is going to be as high as before the law of voting .
silence is anesthetizing .
i represent children .
many of my clients are very young .
the united states of america is the only country in the world that convicts three-ten-year-old children to death in prison .
in this country , there are lifelong sentences for children without conditional punishment .
we already have a lot of procedures .
the only country in the world .
i &apos;d rather continue to do this work that i love .
i represent people in death cells .
the death penalty question is an interesting question .
we believe that because we &apos;ve been taught so that the real question is , did a human being deserve to die for a crime of him ?
this is a very sensitive question .
but you can also think about it differently , depending on how we see our identity .
the other point of view is not , did somebody deserve death for a crime , but , did we deserve to kill ?
i think that &apos;s fascinating .
the death penalty in america is defined by error .
to nine people we executed , one that we found innocent is to be discharged and released from the death cell .
an amazing error rate . one in nine innocent .
but what &apos;s interesting is the unique tone of the song , the rhythm of dance in every culture .
now , of all the people i &apos;ve met , the sophii from the sierra nevada de santa marta in northern colombia , were the most extraordinary .
so the question is : how ?
i think that &apos;s fascinating .
we would never let anyone fly with an airplane , if for nine planes that take off , one would crash .
but somehow we manage to get away from this problem .
it &apos;s not our problem .
it &apos;s not our burden .
it &apos;s not our fight .
i talk a lot about these questions .
i &apos;m talking about race and the question of whether we have the right to kill .
and it &apos;s exciting because i teach my students african american history . i talk about slavery .
i &apos;m talking about terrorism , the time at the end of reconstruction , to the beginning of world war ii .
after some time of reflection , it seems to me that to continue writing , i have to design a kind of protective psychological construct .
we don &apos;t really know very much about it .
but for the african-americans in this country , it was a time of terror .
in many areas , people were afraid of lynchmobs .
or before bombs .
it was the fear of terror that shaped their lives .
these older people are now coming to me and saying , &quot; mr , stevenson , you &apos;re talking , you &apos;re giving talks . you &apos;re telling people to stop saying that we have to do it for the first time in our nation &apos;s history with terrorism : after 9 / 11 . &quot;
they say , &quot; no , tell people we grew up with it . &quot;
and of course , after terrorism , the racial rendering and decades of the racially-motivated submission and apartheid .
and yet , in our country , there &apos;s a dynamic -- we don &apos;t like to talk about our problems .
we don &apos;t like to talk about our story .
and somehow , from now on , i have to find a way of preserving a safe distance between me and my very natural climbing about how the reaction to the written will be .
and that &apos;s why we don &apos;t really understand the importance of our actions in the historical context .
we &apos;re constantly bumping up .
we always create new tensions and conflicts .
it &apos;s hard for us to talk about race , and i think that &apos;s because we &apos;re not willing to approach the process of truth and reconciliation .
in south africa , people have understood that racing is not overcoming without the willingness to truth and reconciliation .
even after the genocide in rwanda , there was this willingness , but not in this country .
i &apos;ve been giving some talks in germany about the death penalty .
it was fascinating because one of the scientists stood up after my talk and said , &quot; you know , it &apos;s deeply disturbing to hear you talk like this . &quot;
he said , &quot; in germany , there &apos;s no death penalty .
and of course , in germany , they can never be there . &quot;
for the last year , i &apos;ve been looking for models to do that , i &apos;ve also been looking for the past , and i &apos;ve been trying to find other societies to see if they might have better or more sensible ideas about how to help them to deal with the emotional risks associated with creativity .
it became silent . then a woman said , &quot; with our story , it &apos;s impossible that we ever speak back to the systematic killing of people .
it would be unaware of us to be aware and targeted to people . &quot;
i thought about it .
what it would feel like to live in a world where the german state made people , especially if there were a lot of jews under it .
it would be intolerable .
it would be mindless .
and yet , here in this country , in the states of the old south , we &apos;re going to take people -- here &apos;s the risk of being convicted of death , 11 times higher when the victim is white than when it is black . 22 times higher when the charged black is and the victim is white -- in the same states where the body is borrowing people .
and yet , there &apos;s this mental disconnect .
i think our identity is threatened .
if we don &apos;t deal with it , with these difficult issues , then the positive and wonderful things are also affected .
this quest led me to ancient greece and the old rome .
we love innovation .
we love technology and creativity .
we love entertainment .
but ultimately , these realities are overwhelmed by suffering , abuse , deployment , limitation .
i think it &apos;s important to unite both .
because we &apos;re talking about ultimately that we need more hope , more engagement , more commitment , to be able to pass in a complex world .
for me , that means time to think and talk about the poor , the disadvantaged , the ones that will never be at ted .
but think in a way that &apos;s integrated into our own lives .
we all have to believe at the end of the day things that we can &apos;t see .
we do . as rational as we are , as much as we value intellect .
please follow me , because the circle will come back .
innovation , creativity , and development is not just coming out of our heads .
they come from ideas that are driven by persuasion in our hearts .
it &apos;s this head-heart connection that i think drives us not only to be open to all the bright and exciting things , but also to the dark and problematic .
vaclav havel , the great chechnya politician , once said this .
&quot; when we fought against oppression in eastern europe , we wanted everything , but what we most needed was hope , a spiritual orientation , the willingness to be sometimes in hopeless places and witness . &quot;
this mental orientation is the core of what i believe the ted communities also have to engage in .
there &apos;s no boundary for technology and design that allows us to be completely human , unless we also have eyes and ears for poverty , limitation and injustice .
i want to warn you . this kind of identity requires a lot more of us than if we didn &apos;t care about it .
she &apos;s going to touch them deeply .
as a young lawyer , i had the great privilege of meeting pink parks .
but in ancient greece and rome , people didn &apos;t believe that creativity comes from people , ok ?
woman parks kept coming back to montgomery , where she had two of her oldest friends , these older women , johnnie carr , who had organized the montgomery-bus boykott -- an incredible african-american -- and virginia durr , a white one whose husband , clifford durr , dr. king .
so these women would come together and just talk .
occasionally , woman carr called me and said , &quot; bryan , ms. parks comes to the city . we want to talk .
do you want to come in and listen ? &quot;
and i said , &quot; yeah , very much . &quot;
she said , &quot; and what are you going to do if you &apos;re here ? &quot;
i said , &quot; i &apos;m going to listen . &quot;
and i went over and just listened .
it was always so inspiring , so relieving .
one day i was sitting there listening to these women , and after a few hours , woman parks turned to me and said , &quot; well , bryan , tell me what the initiative is for the same law . &quot;
they believed that creativity was a kind of divine spirit that comes to human beings from a distant , unknown source -- for unexplained , unknown reasons .
what are they trying to do ? &quot;
i started with my usual talk .
i said , &quot; we &apos;re trying to do something about injustice .
wr wants to help people who were innocent .
we want to fight bias and discrimination in the criminal justice system .
we want to eliminate lifelong sentences without conditional punishment for children .
we want to do something about the death penalty .
we want to reduce the number of prisoners .
we want to eliminate mass incarceration . &quot;
i gave my usual talk , and after that , she looked at me and she said , &quot; mhmm . mhmm . mhmm . &quot;
the greeks called these divine divine spirits of creativity .
she said , &quot; she &apos;s going to be very , very tired . &quot;
then , woman carr leaned in front of me , put a finger on my face and said , &quot; and so you have to be very , very brave . &quot;
and that &apos;s why i think the ted community should be takers .
we have to find ways to solve these challenges : these problems , this suffering .
because ultimately , our humanity depends on all of our humanity .
in my work , i learned very simple things .
i &apos;ve learned a couple of very simple things .
that we &apos;re all more than the worst we &apos;ve ever done .
i think that &apos;s true for every human on the planet .
if somebody lies , they &apos;re not just a liar .
he was known by socrates that he believed he had a demonstration that would tell him farther away .
if someone takes something that doesn &apos;t belong to them , it &apos;s not just a thief .
even if you kill someone , it &apos;s not just a murderer .
and because it is , there is a basic human dignity that has to respect the law .
i also believe that in many parts of this country , and certainly in many parts of the world , the opposite of poverty is not wealth .
i don &apos;t think so .
i believe that in too many places , the opposite of poverty is justice .
and finally , i believe that even though it &apos;s so dramatic , so beautiful and inspiring , and so exhilarating , at the end of the day , we &apos;re not measured by our technology , not by the things we &apos;re developing , not by our intellect and our minds .
finally , a society is not measured by how they treat their rich and powerful and privileged , but by how they deal with the poor , the judged , the incarcerated .
because in this context , we &apos;re starting to understand the truly amazing things that make us .
sometimes i lose the balance . i end up with a story .
descendants of the ancient tyrannian civilization that populated the caribbean coastal plain of colombia , and as a result of the conquest , these people moved into an isolated volcanic mass that rises across the caribbean coastal plain .
the romans had the same idea , called this kind of body losm , creative mind , a genius .
sometimes i push too much .
i get tired , like all of us .
sometimes these ideas will rush ahead of our thinking in a very important way .
i represent these kids who were convicted of too hard punishment .
i go to the study prison and i visit a client who may be 13 or 14 years old , and he &apos;s supposed to be on trial as an adult .
then i wonder : how could this happen ?
how can a judge turn someone into something that he &apos;s not ?
the judge looks at him as an adult , but i see a child .
one night i stayed up and thought , my god , if a judge can turn us into something else , then he has to have magic forces .
right , bryan , the judge has magic forces .
that &apos;s great . the romans didn &apos;t really think that a genius was a particularly smart individual .
you should also wish them .
and because it was late , and i couldn &apos;t really think , i started working on a post .
i had a 14-year-old , poor black boy as a client .
and i started with this brief . the headline was , &quot; assignment to treat my poor , 14-year-old black mandators like a privileged , white , 75-year-old top manager . &quot;
in my commission , i explained that misbehavior was the state accountability and the police and the failures to take into account .
there was a crazy line about the fact that in this country there &apos;s nothing more calculating that there &apos;s only misbehavior .
the next morning , i woke up and i didn &apos;t know if i had just dreamed of this crazy contract or actually written it .
and not only did i write him , but i sent him to the court .
a few months went on , and i had just forgotten everything .
but finally , i decided , my god , i have to go to the court and do this crazy case .
they believed that a genius was this kind of magical divine that was believed to be literally living in the walls of an artist -- sort of like dobby , the house 11 -- that came out and would sort of help the artist work , and sort of make the result of the work .
i got into the car and was really overwhelmed .
so i went to the court .
and i thought , this is going to be so hard , so painful .
finally , i got out of my car , and i went up the staircase to the court .
when i got up the staircase to the court , there was an elderly , black man , the janitor in the court .
when he saw me , he came over to me and he said , &quot; who are you ? &quot;
i said , &quot; i &apos;m a lawyer . &quot; he said , &quot; you &apos;re a lawyer ? &quot; i said , &quot; yes . &quot;
he came to me and hugged me .
then he whispered into my ear .
he said , &quot; i &apos;m so proud of you . &quot;
that &apos;s brilliant -- there it is , there &apos;s the distance i talked about -- the psychological construct that protects you from the consequences of your work .
and i have to say , it gave me power .
it touched something deeply in me , identity , the ability of each individual to contribute to a community , to a perspective of hope .
well , i walked into the courtroom .
as soon as the judge saw me .
he said , &quot; mr. stevenson , did you make this crazy post ? &quot;
i said , &quot; yes . &quot; and then we started discussing .
more and more people came in , just because they were angry .
i &apos;d written these crazy things .
police officers came in and deputy prosecutors and offices .
in the hand , the courtroom was full of people who were angry that we were talking about skin color , about poverty , about inequality .
and everybody knew that &apos;s how it worked , right ?
from my point of view , i saw the janitor go up and down .
he kept looking through the window , and he could hear the whole tohuwabohu .
he went up and down .
and finally , this older black man came in with a very concerned facial recruit in the courtroom and sat right behind me , almost to the defense bank .
ten minutes later , the judge announced a break .
during the break , a police officer came in , and he was disturbing that the janitor was in the courtroom .
this deputy ran over to the older black .
he said , &quot; jimmy , what are you doing in the courtroom ? &quot;
the older black man stood up . he looked at the deputy , then he looked at me , and he said , &quot; i &apos;ve come here to tell this young man , don &apos;t lose the goal from the eyes . don &apos;t give up . &quot;
i &apos;ve come to ted because i think many of you have understood that the moral pendulum of the universe is going to be far , but that it &apos;s going to increase justice .
the artist of the age was protected from certain things , like , too much narcissism , right ?
that we are not completely evolved as humans unless we care about human rights and basic values .
that all of our survival is linked to each individual survival .
that we need to connect our visions of technology and design , of entertainment and creativity with humanity , of compassion and of justice .
and most of all , i want those of you who see that , just say , don &apos;t lose your eyes . don &apos;t give up .
you &apos;ve seen and heard in this audience , this community , an obvious desire to help you and do something .
what else can we do ?
bryan stevenson : well , there are opportunities everywhere .
if you live in california , in this spring , there &apos;s a national decision that &apos;s going to be about actually doing a efforts to do something about the money stream that otherwise flows into the politics of punishment .
for example , in california , in the next five years , you &apos;re going to spend a billion dollars on death penalty . a billion dollars .
and yet , 46 percent of all the lethal delicates don &apos;t end with arrest .
if your work was brilliant , you wouldn &apos;t be able to look at it all for you , everyone knew that you had this disembodied genius that helped you .
56 percent of all rape cases do not come to court .
here &apos;s the opportunity to do something .
this reference will suggest that investing money in more security forces and security .
i think there are opportunities everywhere .
over the last three decades , the decline in decline in immense america .
this fact is often put into a relationship with the increased incarceration .
what would you say to someone who believes that ?
well , in fact , the number of violent crimes has not changed very much .
most of the mass incarceration in this country didn &apos;t really happen in the class of violent crime .
it was the misguided crossroads against drugs .
if your work flew -- not entirely your fault , right ?
that &apos;s why the dramatic high numbers come to the prisoners .
we &apos;ve been tearing down by the rhetoric of punishment .
now we have &quot; three violations &quot; laws that bring people behind bars forever , for a bicycle theft , for the theft , slightly good for the theft , rather than forcing them to give back the victims .
i think we need to do more to help people who have become victims of a criminal justice , not less .
and i think our current punishment philosophy doesn &apos;t help anybody .
i think that &apos;s what we have to change .
bryan , they really made a string to swing here .
they &apos;re an inspiring personality .
thank you for being at ted . thank you .
bin laden &apos;s death brings an increased risk of risk .
everybody knew your genius was a bit of a truck .
famine in somalia . speaker 3 : pfefferspray of the police .
four : malignant cartels . speaker 5 : dangerous cruise ships .
six : social decline . speaker 7 : 65 dead .
speaker 8 : tsunami warning . speaker 9 : cyber-attacks
different speakers : drug war . weapons of mass destruction . tornado .
recession . stand still . doomsday . egypt . syria .
crisis . death . disaster .
oh my god .
so these are just a few of the clips that i &apos;ve collected over the last six months -- but it could have been the last six days , or the last six years .
the fact is that the media prefers to show us negative issues because our minds pay attention to these very topics .
that &apos;s how people in the west really thought about creativity for a long time .
and there &apos;s also a very good reason for that .
every second of every day , our senses are catching much more information than our brain can ever process .
and because there &apos;s nothing more important to us than our survival , the first stop for all the information is part of our temporal lobe , the amygdala .
so the amygdala is our early warning system , our driving detector .
it &apos;s sort and it &apos;s going through all the information looking for any evidence of danger in our environment .
so when we see the news , we prefer to look for negative news .
and the old adage , &quot; when it bleeds , the demand goes , &quot; is very true .
now , with all our digital devices , seven days a week , to put all these negative news 24 hours a day , it &apos;s not a miracle that we &apos;re pessimistic .
it &apos;s not a miracle that everybody thinks the world is doing worse and worse .
but maybe that &apos;s not the case .
in a bloodbath continent , these people were the only ones that were never conquered by the spaniards .
and then the renaissance came along , and everything changed . we had this big idea . and this big idea was , let &apos;s put the human individual at the center of the universe -- about all the gods and mysteries . and there &apos;s no room for mystical creatures to take the commands from the divine .
maybe that &apos;s the reality .
maybe the tremendous progress that we &apos;ve made in the last century is accelerating by a series of forces , so strong that we will be able to create a world of abundance in the next three decades .
now , i &apos;m not saying we don &apos;t have big problems -- climate crisis , biodiversity , water and energy problems -- we already have them .
and as humans , we &apos;re much better at overcoming problems in a very long way , but ultimately overcoming them .
let &apos;s look at what we &apos;ve achieved in the last century , so that we can anticipate development .
in the last 100 years , the average life expectancy has more than doubled , which has tripled to the inflation of average income in the world &apos;s population .
child mortality has reduced by a tenth of a time .
and also , the food , electricity transportation and communication costs have reduced a lot .
steve pinker has shown us that we are living in a very peaceful time in human history right now .
and according to charles kenny , the literacy rate has gone from 25 percent to 80 percent in the past 130 years .
it &apos;s the beginning of rational humanism , and people started to believe that creativity came completely from their own individual .
we live in a really extraordinary time .
and a lot of people forget this .
and we keep increasing our expectations .
in fact , we redefined poverty .
remember that a large proportion of americans who live under the poverty line have access to electricity , water , toilets , refrigerators , tv sets , mobile phones , air conditioning and cars .
the richest capitalists in the last century , the imperators on earth , could never have dreamed of such luxury goods .
the basis for a lot of these are technologies , and they &apos;re growing expotentially .
my good friend ray kurzweil has shown us that every tool that becomes an information technology , on the curve of moore &apos;s law , is making big jumps , doubling the price performance quotient every 12 to 24 months .
that &apos;s why the mobile phone in your pocket costs about a million times less , and it &apos;s a thousand times faster than a supercomputer from the &apos; 70s .
now look at this curve .
for the first time in history , you hear people call this genius or this artist -- instead of having a genius .
this is moore &apos;s law over the last hundred years .
notice two things about this curve .
first , how smooth she is -- in good times , war or peace , recession , depression and high juncture .
this is the result of faster computers building faster computers .
it doesn &apos;t slow down for any of our big problems .
and also , despite her logarithmic process on the left , she &apos;s going upward .
so the growth rate itself is accelerating .
and on this curve , on the back of moore &apos;s law , we find a series of extraordinary technologies that are all available .
&quot; cloud computing , &quot; what my friends at autodesk call infinite-computing , sensors and networks , robots , 3d printers that allow us to democratize personal production on our planet , synthetic biology , fuel , vaccines and food , digital medicine , nano-materials and artificial intelligence .
how many of you have seen the victory of ibm &apos;s supercomputer watson at risk ?
i have to tell you , i think that was a big mistake .
that was great .
i once went through the newspapers and looked for the best headlines i could find .
i love this one : &quot; watson defeats human opponents . &quot;
risk is not a simple game .
it &apos;s about understanding the nuances of language .
imagine that this artificial intelligence is available to every mobile phone owner .
four years ago , ray kurzweil and i started a new university here at ted called singularity university .
we teach our students all these technologies , with special focus on how they can be used to solve the big challenges of humanity .
and every year we ask students to create companies , products and services that can , in a decade , be positive about the lives of billions of people .
think about how a group of students today can affect the lives of billions of people .
you know ? i think it &apos;s a mere person to allow him to think he or she &apos;s like the vessel , like the basin and the essence and the source of all divine , creative , unknown , infinite mystery is a little bit too much responsibility to get you to a fragile , human psyche .
30 years ago , this would have sounded ridiculous .
today we can point to dozens of companies that have done exactly that .
when i think about creating abundance , i don &apos;t mean a life of luxury for everyone on the planet ; it &apos;s about making a life of opportunity .
it &apos;s about making scarce goods out of scarce .
because scarcity is contextual , and technology is a resource that is liberating .
here &apos;s an example .
this is the story of napoleon iiii in the mid-18th century .
he &apos;s the guy on the left .
he invited the king of siam for dinner .
napoleon &apos;s soldiers got silver beaker , napoleon himself got gold beaker .
it &apos;s like asking someone to swallow the sun .
but the king of siam got aluminum bribe .
aluminum was at that time the most valuable metal on the planet , more valuable than gold and platin .
this is why the dome of the galaxy monument was made out of aluminum .
although aluminum takes 8.3 percent of the earth &apos;s mass , it doesn &apos;t seem like pure metal .
it &apos;s connected by oxygen and silicon .
but then the technology of electrolysis was developed and made aluminum manufacturing so cheap that we use it with our throwaway mentality .
then let &apos;s project this analogy into the future .
we &apos;re thinking about energy scarcity today .
ladies and gentlemen , we live on a planet filled with 5,000-times more energy than we use every year .
16 terawatts of energy prashing every 88 minutes to the surface of the earth .
that disfigures and distorts whole egos , and it creates all these unreachable expectations of success .
it &apos;s not scarcity ; the problem is accessibility .
and there &apos;s good news .
this year , for the first time , you &apos;ve been able to reduce the cost of solar power in india to 50 percent of the same electricity -- 8.8 rupees compared to 17 rupees .
the cost of solar energy dropped by 50 percent last year .
this has been published last month with a study showing that , by the end of this decade , in the sunny areas of the united states , solar will cost six cents a kwh , compared to 15 cents a national average .
and if we have an overload of energy , we will also have water in abundance .
let &apos;s talk about water wars .
remember when carl sagan turned the voyager spacecraft in 1990 , when it passed by saturn , back to earth ?
he took a famous photograph . what did it mean ?
&quot; a pale blue dot . &quot;
i think that this success pressure has devastated our artists for the last 500 years .
because we live on a water planet .
we live on a planet that &apos;s 70 percent covered in water .
yes , it &apos;s 97.5 percent saltwater , two percent are frozen , and we &apos;re fighting 0.5 percent of the water on the planet , but there &apos;s also hope .
and there are new technologies , not in 10 or 20 years , but now .
these are new nanotechnes along the way , nano-materials .
and from a conversation this morning with dean kaman , one of the innovators of do it yourself , i &apos;d like to share with you -- he gave me the permission -- his technology , which is called slingshot , and that many of you may have heard of . it &apos;s the size of a refrigerator in the student &apos;s home .
it can produce a thousand gallons of clean drinking water a day from different sources -- whether it &apos;s saltwater , polluted water , latrine -- and all of that for less than two cents a gallon .
the chairman of coca-cola just agreed to start a big test project with a hundred units in the developing world .
and if everything goes well , and i &apos;m very confident , coca-cola will apply this technology globally in 206 countries around the planet .
this is technology supported innovation that we have today .
and if that &apos;s true -- and i think it &apos;s true -- that &apos;s the question .
and we &apos;ve also seen this in mobile phones .
oh my god , we &apos;re going to reach the 70 percent reduction rate of mobile phones in the developing world to the end of 2013 .
just remember that a maasai warrior with a cell phone in the middle of kenya has a better mobile communication than president reagan did 25 years ago .
and if you look for google with your smartphone , you have more access to knowledge and information than president clinton 15 years ago .
they live in a world that has information and communications in abundance , as nobody could have predicted .
and it &apos;s even better , the things that you and i have spent several thousand dollars on -- gps , hd video and photo , libraries full of books and music , technology for medical diagnostics -- are now literally being dematerialized and cheaper in your cell phone .
and the best part is possibly what we expect in health care .
last month , i had the pleasure of announcing the so-called &quot; $ 10 million qualcomm tricorder x prize &quot; with the qualcomma foundation .
we &apos;re challenging teams around the world to connect all these technologies to each other in a mobile phone so that you can talk to the device , because it &apos;s equipped with ai , you can test cleaners or your blood values .
and to win , the device has to diagnose a better diagnosis than a team of highly qualified doctors .
can we change it ?
imagine this device , right in the middle of a developing country , where there are no doctors , but 25 percent of the burden of disease and 1.3 percent of the health workers .
if this device sequences a rna- or dna virus that &apos;s not known , it calls the ministry of health and prevents a pandemic from its outbreak .
but now , the biggest force that will lead us to a world of abundance .
i call them &quot; the coming billion . &quot;
the white lines are the population .
we just crossed the 7-billion-dollar brand .
and by the way , the biggest insurance against a population explosion is a better education and nutrition all over the world .
in 2010 , we had just connected under two billion people online .
by 2020 , we &apos;re going from two billion to five billion internet users .
three billion new minds that we &apos;ve never heard of before will connect with global communication .
to this day , they &apos;re governed by a ritual priesthood , but the education of priesthood is very extraordinary .
maybe returning to an ancient understanding of the relationship between people and the mystery of the creative .
what do these people need ?
what are they going to consume ? what are they going to want ?
and instead of economic gridlock , i see one of the largest economic entities in history .
these people represent several trillion dollars that will flow into the global economy .
and they will be healthier by using the tricoder , and they will be better educated by the khan academy , and by having the opportunity to use 3d printers and infinite computing , and so much more productive than ever before .
so what can three billion growing , healthy , educated , productive members of the human community bring us ?
how about a set of new , never heard before .
how about giving the oppressed , wherever you are , a voice to pay attention and create change for the very first time ?
what are these three billion people going to bring ?
what about contributions that we can &apos;t even predict ?
maybe not .
one of the things that i learned through the x prize is that little teams that are motivated by passion and focus can create extraordinary things , things that big companies and governments could only create in the past .
i want to end with a story that really got me excited about .
there &apos;s a program that some of you may know .
it &apos;s a game called foldit .
it was developed at the university of washington in seattle .
and it &apos;s a game where people can take a sequence of amino acids to study how the protein will evolve .
depending on its behavior , we can predict the structure and function .
and this is very important in medical research .
so this has been a problem for supercomputers .
and this game was played by university professors and so on .
maybe we can &apos;t just eradicate the thought of 500 years of rational humanism in an 18-minute talk .
and there are now hundreds of thousands of people who have played the game online .
and it showed that nowadays , human pattern recognition is better folding the proteins than the best supercomputers .
and when these people came and looked at who &apos;s the best protein folder in the world , this was not a mit professor , nor a caltech student , it was somebody from england , manchester , a woman who worked as a assistant of business director in a rehab clinic at night , and at night was the best protein orderer in the world .
ladies and gentlemen , what gives me enormous confidence in our future , is the fact that we have more power than individuals today to face the big challenges of our planet .
we have access to tools with exponential technology .
we have the passion of a diy innovator .
we have the capital of techno-philanthropy .
and we have three billion new minds that we can work with online to master the new challenges , and to do what &apos;s needed .
we expect a few extraordinary decades .
thank you .
and there are certainly people in this audience who would sign really legitimate scientific doubt about the idea of -- basically -- fees that people follow and apply feathers to their projects and so on .
i think we have to do something about a transformative piece of medical culture .
and i think it starts with a medical doctor , and that &apos;s me .
and maybe i &apos;ve been in the business for a long time , so that i can allow myself to give up a piece of my own false prestige to allow this to happen .
but before i get to the actual theme of my talk , let &apos;s start with a little baseball .
hey , why not ?
we &apos;re close to the season , and we &apos;re moving towards the world cup .
we all love baseball , right ?
baseball is full of great statistics .
and there are hundreds of them .
&quot; moneyball &quot; appears soon , and it turns to statistics , and to use this great baseball team .
i &apos;m probably not going to be able to take all of you on this journey .
i &apos;m going to refer to a statistic that i hope most of you have heard about .
it &apos;s the average performance of the bat .
we &apos;re talking about a 300 when a bat beats 300 .
that means that the player is going to beat three out of 10 strokes .
that means beat the ball in the field , it comes up , it &apos;s not caught , and who tried to throw the ball at first base , didn &apos;t do it in time , and the runner was safe .
three out of 10 .
do you know what you call a 300th in major league baseball ?
well , really good , maybe a single star .
do you know what you call a 400th ?
this is somebody who , by the way , hits four out of 10 .
but the question i want to throw up is , why not ?
legendary -- like ted williams legendary -- the last major league baseball player who met over 400 times in a regular season .
let &apos;s go back to my medical world , where i feel a lot more comfortable , or maybe a little less comfortable after i talked to you about it .
suppose you have a blindfold , and you &apos;re transferred to an operator whose average performance is 400 in terms of blindfold inflammation .
somehow it doesn &apos;t work , right ?
suppose you live in a particular remote area , and you have a beloved person with constipated heart disease , and your doctor has shown that to a cardiologist whose average performance is 200 .
but , you know what ?
it &apos;s much better this year . it &apos;s on the rising branch .
and she &apos;s beating a 257 .
somehow it doesn &apos;t work .
but i &apos;m going to ask you a question .
why not think about it that way ?
what do you think of the average performance for a cardiologist or a nurse or an orthopedic , or a birthday shelter , should be a rescue assistant ?
1,000 , very good .
the truth is that nobody in all medicine knows what a good surgeon or a doctor or a rescue assistant should be .
but what we do is we send each of them , including me , to the world with the claim to be perfect .
never make a mistake , but no one ever makes a mistake about the details of how to do that .
and that &apos;s the message i took in medical school .
i was a obsessive student .
in high school , a student once said that brian goldman would learn for a blood test .
and so was it .
and i learned in my little roof , in the nurse residence , at the toronto general hospital , not far from here .
because it makes just as much sense as anything else i &apos;ve heard about when it came to explaining the absolutely insane sense of the creative process .
i learned everything memorized .
in my anatomy lecture , i learned the origins and the runners of every muscle , every branch of every artery that takes away from the aorta , obscure and ordinary differential diagnosis .
i even knew the differential diagnosis to classify renal tubula azidose .
and all the time , i was collecting more and more knowledge .
and i was good , i graduated from cum laude .
and i left the medical school with the impression that if i knew everything and knew everything , or at least as much as possible , as close to complete as possible , that i was immune to making mistakes .
and it worked for a while , until i met woman printer .
i was resistant to a teaching hospital here in toronto as a woman who was brought to the emergency department of the hospital .
at that point , i was dedicated to the cardiology layer in the cardiology service .
and it was my mission when the emergency staff cardiology council was looking for the emergency patient .
a process that -- like anyone who has ever tried to do something -- so in other words , everybody here -- doesn &apos;t always act reasonably .
and giving back to my chief physician .
i studied woman printer , and she was in breathing .
and when i listened to her , she made cookie sounds .
and when i heard her chest with the stethoscope , i could hear a cracking sound on both sides , which told me that she suffered from congestive heart failure .
this is a state in which the heart fails , instead of pumping the entire blood on , a part of the blood is stuck in the lung , and it &apos;s filling it up , so the short-circuitry came .
and that was not a difficult diagnosis to do .
i hired them , and i took them to treatment .
i gave her aspirin . i gave her medicine to take the pressure of the heart .
i gave her medicine , which we call diuretics , water pills , so that she would leave the fluid .
and over a period of one and a half to two hours , she began to feel better .
in fact , sometimes it can feel like it &apos;s paranormal .
i felt really good .
and i made my first mistake ; i sent them home .
in fact , i made two mistakes .
i sent them home without talking to my chief doctor .
i didn &apos;t pick up the audience , and i did what i should have had , which would have been a call to my supreme doctor to tell him , so that he would have had a chance to make his own image .
and he knew it would have been able to contribute extra information to it .
maybe i did it with good reason .
maybe i didn &apos;t want to be the assistant doctor .
maybe i wanted to be so successful and so capable of taking responsibility that i was acting , and so i would be able to take care of my patients without having to contact them .
my second mistake was worse .
the young acolyths are separated from their families at the age of three and four , and in a shadow world of the eclipse , in stone huts at the bottom of the glacier for 18 years , and two times of each nine years , deliberately chosen to mimic the nine months of pregnancy that they spent in their lap mother &apos;s lap , they now spend metamorphorically in the great mother &apos;s lap .
i had a recent encounter like this when i met the extraordinary american poet ruth stone , who is now over 90 , but who was a poet all her life , and she told me that when she was growing up in the villages of virginia , she was out in the fields , and she said she could feel and hear a poem about the landscape .
so i sent them home , and i missed a quiet voice in me , trying to tell me , &quot; goldman , not a good idea . don &apos;t do that . &quot;
in fact , i was so missed by self-confidence that i asked the nurse who was taking care of woman printer , &quot; do you think it &apos;s okay to go home ? &quot;
and the nurse thought about it and said , in a real way , &quot; yeah , i think she &apos;s going to do well . &quot;
i remember it was yesterday .
so i signed the indulgence papers and a ambulance and rescue assistants came home and brought them home .
and i went back to work .
the rest of the day , the evening , i had this nagging feeling in my stomach .
but i kept working .
and at the end of the day , i grabbed my things , and i left the hospital , and i went to the parking lot to go home with the car when i did something that i didn &apos;t do otherwise .
i went home through the emergency department on my way .
she said it was like a thunderous train of air .
and there , another nurse said , not the sister who had seen printer after woman , but another three words to me , and these three words are afraid of most emergency doctors i know .
other medical professionals are also afraid of this , but the emergency medicine is particularly because we see the patients just so volatile .
the three words were : remember ?
&quot; remember the patient you sent home ? &quot;
and the nurse was asking .
&quot; so she &apos;s back , &quot; she said in this particular audio .
so she was back .
she was back and dying .
about an hour after she got home , after i sent her home , she collapsed , and the family called 911 , and the rescue assistants brought her back to the emergency room with a 50 blood pressure , which is a dangerous shock state .
she barely breathed , and she had gone blue .
that would roll over the country to you .
the emergency staff dragged all the strands .
they gave her blood pressure increases .
they attached them to the ventilation machine .
i was shocked , and i was crushed to the inside .
and i lived through this rollercoaster because she came to the intensive care unit after she stabilized , and i hoped she would recover .
and after two , three days , it became clear that it would never wake up again .
she had suffered a non-treatable brain damage .
her family gathered together .
and over the course of the next eight or nine days , they were given to it .
the new day , they made her go -- woman , printer , woman , mother and grandmother .
she felt when it came , because it would bring the earth under her feet to the quake .
they say that you never forget the names of those who die .
and that was the first time i learned this .
the next few weeks , i went ahead and i first learned the unhealthy shame that exists in our medical culture -- i felt alone , isolated , not the kind of healthy shame that you feel , because you can &apos;t talk to the colleagues about it .
you all know the healthy shame , if you give a secret to the best friend &apos;s prize , even though that one is concealed and then you get caught , and the best friend confronts you with it and gives you a terrible discussion , but when you end up with the bad conscience , and you swing that you never make a mistake like that again .
if you do revision and never make the mistake again .
this is the kind of educational shame .
the unhealthy species that i &apos;m talking about is the one that makes you sick in the very first place .
it &apos;s the one who tells you that it &apos;s not what you &apos;ve done that &apos;s bad , it &apos;s what you &apos;re bad at .
and that &apos;s what i felt .
and it wasn &apos;t because of my chief , it was very dear .
she knew that in such a moment she could only do one . and that was -- in her words -- running like the devil .
he was talking to the family , and i &apos;m sure he was smoking the wounds and making sure i wasn &apos;t sued .
but i kept asking myself these questions .
why didn &apos;t i ask the top doctor ? why did i send her home ?
and then in my worst moments , how could i make such a stupid mistake ?
why did i go to medicine ?
slowly , it was safe .
i started feeling better .
and then on a wounded day , there was a hole in the clouds , and the sun broke out , and i said maybe i could feel better again .
and i negotiated with myself that if i doubled my efforts to perfection and never again made a mistake that the voice could confuse .
and she did .
she ran like the devil to the house while she was pursued by this poem , and it was all about how quickly she had to get to a sheet of paper and a pencil , so she could catch it when it was going through her , and hold it on the sheet .
and i kept working .
and then it happened again .
two years later , i had service in the emergency room in a community hospital north of toronto , and i reviewed a 25-year-old man with rigid revenge .
it was a lot of it , and i was in eile .
he always showed up here .
i looked in the revenge , and it was a little pink .
and i gave him a prescription for penicillin and sent him away .
and even as he walked out of the door , he pointed at his revenge .
two days later , i came to my next emergency service , and my ceo asked me for a conversation in her office .
and she said the three words : do you remember ?
in other paintings , she wasn &apos;t fast enough . she ran and ran and ran , but she didn &apos;t reach the house , and the poem rolled through them , and she missed it . she said it would keep moving over land and -- as she said -- searching for another poet .
&quot; do you remember the patient with the mature revenge ? &quot;
it turns out he had a streptococcal infection .
he had a potentially life-threatening disease called epiglottitis .
you can google that , but it &apos;s not an infection of the retina , but it &apos;s the upper respiratory pathways , and it causes the capability of the breathing path .
and fortunately , he didn &apos;t die .
he got intravenous antibotica and recovered a few days later .
and i went back through the same torture of shame and self-doubt , feeling liberated and went to work until it happened again and again and again .
in an emergency class , i &apos;ve overlooked a blindfold on two times .
there &apos;s a lot of that , especially if you think that you &apos;re working in a hospital that had only 14 patients per night at that time .
in both cases , i didn &apos;t send them home , and i didn &apos;t think there were any flaws in their treatment .
and then there were these moments -- i &apos;ll never forget the part -- she said that there were moments when she nearly missed it .
i thought he had kidney stones in one .
i arranged the x-ray of the kidneys , and when that was without evidence , my colleague noticed , in the revision of the patient , a hardening in the lower right sector , and called the operators .
the other one had strong diarrhea .
i ordered fluids to rehydrate him and asked my colleagues to review him .
and he did , and when he noticed a hardening in the lower right sector , he called the operators .
they did surgery in both cases , and they did well .
both cases were closing me , asking me up .
and i would be happy to tell you that my worst errors only happened in the first five years , which many of my colleagues say is a total nonsense .
some of my claws have happened in the last five years .
alone , shame and without support .
so she runs to the house and looks for the paper , and the poem goes through her , and she grabs a pencil just as it goes through her and then she -- she said -- it was like being able to reach out with her other hand and grab it .
here &apos;s the problem : if i can &apos;t finish up with my mistakes and talk about them , if i have the quiet voice that tells me what really can &apos;t find , how can i share it with my colleagues ?
how can i teach them my mistakes so that they don &apos;t do the same thing ?
if i was in a room -- like right now , i have no idea what you &apos;re thinking about me .
when was the last time you heard about somebody who was talking about failure ?
oh yeah , you go to a cocktail party , and you might hear about some other doctor , but you &apos;re not going to hear somebody talk about your own mistakes .
if i were to go into a room full of colleagues and ask for their immediate support and start telling them what i just told you , i would very likely not get to the end of the second story before it really would make them uncomfortable , anybody would have a joke , they would change the topic and forget the rest .
and in fact , if i knew , or my colleagues , that an orthopedic in my hospital would have taken someone &apos;s wrong leg , believe me , i &apos;d have trouble looking in the eyes .
this is the system that we live in .
it &apos;s a completely denial of errors .
it &apos;s a system in which there are two basic positions -- the ones that make mistakes and the ones that don &apos;t make -- the ones that constrain sleep deprivation and the ones that don &apos;t have any constraints that have bad results and good results .
she caught the poem on his tail , and she pulled it back into her body , and she took it over to the sheet of paper .
it &apos;s almost an ideological reaction like antibodies that attack a human being .
and there &apos;s an idea that if we banned those who make errors from medicine , that we have a safe system .
but there are two problems with this .
in my about 20 years of medical sentiment and journalism , i created a personal medical study on medical error and false treatments to learn everything i could for a first article of mine that i wrote for the toronto star to my show , &quot; white coat , black art . &quot;
and what i learned is that mistakes are absolutely inconsistent .
we &apos;re working in a system where errors happen every day , where one in 10 medications is either a false or a wrong dose , where hospital infections are always and getting more and more numerous and causing devastation or dead .
in this state , about 24,000 canadians die of common errors .
in the united states , the institute of medicine is affecting the number of 100,000 .
both of these are strong understatements , because we don &apos;t look at the problem as closely as we should .
and it &apos;s the crux .
and all this time , they &apos;re culturally introduced to the values of their society , values that sustain the claim that their prayers and their prayers , the cosmic -- or we could say the ecological -- sustain balance .
in these opportunities , the poem came in and intact on paper -- but backwards -- from the last word to the first .
in a hospital system where medical knowledge doubles every two to three years , we can &apos;t keep up .
sleep deprivation is ubiquitous .
we can &apos;t get rid of it .
we have a cognitive error , so that we can take a perfect disease course for a breast pain patient .
and then i take the same patient with breast pain , and i sweat him , and i shoot him , and i add a slightly alcoholic breath , and all of a sudden the story is permeated with contempt .
i don &apos;t take the same course .
i &apos;m not a robot ; i &apos;m not always doing things .
and my patients are not cars ; they &apos;re not always telling me their symptoms in the same way .
all of that , in summary , is inevitable .
so if you take the system the way i was taught to do it , and you expose all the error health experts , there &apos;s no one left at all .
when i heard that , i thought that was creepy -- that &apos;s exactly how my creative process is going on .
and you know the bodies of people who don &apos;t want to talk about their worst cases ?
in my show , &quot; white coat , black artwork , &quot; i have the habit to say , &quot; this is my worst mistake , &quot; i would go to everybody from rescue assistants to the chef of the cardiologists , &quot; this is my worst mistake , &quot; blah , blah , blah , blah , blah , &quot; what about yours ? &quot; and then i &apos;ll show the microphone to him .
and then their pupils expand , they &apos;ve been bumped in front of their head , and then they look down and they swallow , and they start telling their stories .
they want to tell their stories . they want to share their stories .
they want to be able to say , &quot; look , don &apos;t make the same mistakes that i made . &quot;
what you need is an environment that puts you in a position .
what you need is a new medical culture .
and it starts with a doctor .
the newly defined doctor is a human being , white to embrace his humanity , accepting it is not proud of making mistakes , but putting everything out of them so that it can be passed on .
she shares her experience with others .
it &apos;s not like my creative process at all -- i &apos;m not the channel !
it supports others to talk about their mistakes .
and it shows other people their mistakes , not to show up , but in a loving , supportive way , so that they all benefit .
and she &apos;s working in a medical culture that recognizes that people fill the system with life , and if that &apos;s true , then people also make mistakes from time to time .
so that the system develops to create backups that make it easier to make mistakes that make people inevitable , and also enables them to create lovely , supportive spaces where anyone who &apos;s watching health care can actually address things that are potential mistakes and even reward them for them , and that &apos;s specifically for people like me who make mistakes and should be rewarded for the gratification of those rewards .
my name is brian goldman .
i &apos;m the newly defined doctor .
i &apos;m a human . i make mistakes .
i regret there , but i &apos;m trying to learn best from that to pass it on .
i don &apos;t know what you think of me , but i can live with that .
let me close with three of my own words : i remember .
i &apos;m a mulberry . in order to work , i have to stand up every day at the same time and sweat , struggle and really uncomfortable .
i &apos;m going to talk about a tiny , little idea .
it &apos;s about changing standards .
and because you can explain this idea in a minute , i &apos;m going to tell you three stories before to use time .
the first story is about charles darwin , one of my heroes .
you know , he was here in 1835 .
you might think he was hunting , but that &apos;s not true .
he actually collected fish .
he described one of them as very common .
it was a grouper .
by the &apos; 80s , it was fished in a big way .
but even i &apos;ve been riding this thing in my mooring species .
now he &apos;s on the red list of endangered species .
this is a story that we &apos;ve heard many times about the galapagos islands or other places , and it &apos;s not very special .
but we &apos;re still coming to the galapagos .
we still think they &apos;re originally .
the brochures still describe them as untouched .
what &apos;s happened here ?
the second story is to illustrate a different concept , the shiftable boreal , of course .
because i experienced it when i studied a lagoon in west africa in 1971 .
i went there because i grew up in europe , and i wanted to work in africa later .
i thought i could integrate .
and i guess a lot of you have done that .
and i got a bad sunburn , and i was convinced that i really didn &apos;t come from there .
it was my first sunburn .
as you can see , the lagoon of palms was surrounded by a few mangroves .
there were buntbarese of about 20 centimeters , black mouth brothers , a subset of the buntbareans .
the fisheries of these federal bareds were very productive , and the fishermen lived well on average and earned in ghana .
when i went back there 27 years later , the fish had shrunk to half its size .
adult , they &apos;re five centimeters .
they had been genetically expressed .
they were still fish .
people were still happy .
even i had work or ideas that came through from a source of mine that i really can &apos;t identify .
and the fish were also lucky to be there .
so nothing has changed , and yet everything has changed .
my third little story tells me about my participation in the introduction of the trawl fishery in southeast asia .
in the &apos; 70s , rather in the early &apos; 60s , europe promoted a lot of development projects .
fishing promoting countries that have already started 100,000 fish , the industrial fishing of this rather ugly ship is called mutiara 4 .
i went along with this , and we made a recovery throughout the southern southern china sea , and especially in the javasee .
we didn &apos;t have words for what we started there .
now i know it was the cause of the sea .
90 percent of our beginnings were sponges , other animals that were linked to the bottom .
most of the fish , the little dots there on the rubber , the rubber pile , were coral reefs .
what is this thing ?
basically , the bottom of the ocean came on deck and then was thrown back .
these pictures are extraordinary because the transition is going very fast .
within a year , you get a recovery and then you start with commercial fishing .
the reason is changed . because , in this case -- a hard reason , or soft corals , it becomes a mist .
this is a dead turtle .
they weren &apos;t eaten , they threw them away because they were dead .
one time we caught a living one .
she was not drunk yet .
then they wanted to kill them , because you could eat them well .
in fact , this mountain of drum is accumulated by fishermen every time they drive into areas that have never been fished .
and how do we relate to it without losing our minds , but actually keeping ourselves in mental health ?
but it &apos;s not documented .
we change the world , but we don &apos;t remember it .
we adjust our normal values to the new level , and we don &apos;t remind ourselves of what was there .
if you generalize it , here &apos;s what happens .
on the y-axis , there are some good things : biodiversity , number of orca , the green of your country , the water supply .
over time , it changes . it changes , because for people , their actions are completely natural .
every generation looks at the images that you take at the beginning of your conscious life , as a standard , and it will all be derived from it .
the difference is then perceived as a loss .
but they don &apos;t notice the previous losses .
there can be a sequence of change .
for me , the best living example of how to do this is to the musician tom waits , and i was allowed to interview him a few years ago for a magazine .
and at the end , they just want to get the pathetic remains .
that &apos;s our goal , by and large .
we want to get things that have disappeared or things that are no longer the way they were .
now you might think that the problem was to look at people who were certainly living in predatory societies , killing animals , and getting aware of what they had done after a few generations .
because obviously , an animal that was very common , very rarely before it dies out .
so you don &apos;t lose a common occurring animal .
you &apos;re always losing rare animals .
and that &apos;s why it &apos;s not perceived as a big loss .
over time , we &apos;re focusing on the large animals , and in the sea , these are the big fish .
they get rarer because we catch them .
at the end of this amazing initiation , one day , suddenly you &apos;re taken out and for the first time in your life , at the age of 18 , you see a sunrise . and in this crystal moment of consciousness of the first light , when the sun begins to shine on the hands of the amazing beautiful landscape , all of a sudden , everything that you &apos;ve learned in the abstract is confirmed in amazing glory . and the priest comes back and says , &quot; you see ? it &apos;s really , as i told you .
we talked about this topic . and you know what ? most of his life was tom &apos;s embodiment of the pure modern artist , who was trying to dominate these uncontrollable creative impulses that lived in him and deal with them .
over time , there &apos;s a little bit of fish left , and we think that &apos;s the standard value .
the question is , why do people accept this ?
well , because you don &apos;t know it was once different .
of course , many people , scientists , will confirm that it was really different .
they will confirm it , because the evidence of how they present in an earlier form is not the way they would like to show the evidence .
for example , there &apos;s the anecdote that the report of a captain like this can &apos;t be used in this area of great fish resources , or for fisheries scientists , is not usually valued because it &apos;s not &quot; scientific . &quot;
so we have the situation that people don &apos;t know the past , even though we live in educated societies , because they don &apos;t trust the sources of the past .
this shows the huge role that a marine reserve can play .
because through marine protected areas , we &apos;re basically restoring the past .
we restore the past that people can &apos;t grasp because the standard values have changed and are very low .
but then he got older and quieter . he told me that one day he was driving on a highway in los angeles , and everything changed for him .
so the people who see a marine reserve and can benefit from the insight that allows them to restore their normal values .
what about the people who can &apos;t do that because they don &apos;t have access -- the people in the midwest , for example ?
here , i think , perhaps art and film can fill the gap , and simulations .
this is the simulation of chesapeake bay .
a long time ago , there were gray whales -- 500 years ago .
and the color notes and the shades , you might remember &quot; avatar . &quot;
if you think about &quot; avatar , &quot; if you think about why people were so touched by it -- except for the pocahoney story , why were you so touched by the imagery world ?
because it creates something that &apos;s been lost in a way .
so my recommendation , the only one i &apos;m going to give , is to cameron , so he turns &quot; avatar ii &quot; underwater .
thank you .
he drove at high speed when he suddenly hears a little fragment of a melody , which , as is often inspiring , is very difficult for him to have , and he wants to have them . she &apos;s gorgeous . he leans after that , but he can &apos;t grab them .
in the &apos; 80s , in the communist east germany , if you had a typewriter , you had to register it in the government .
they also had to register a sheet of unprecedented text from this typewriter .
the reason for this : the government could track back where a text came from .
they found an article with false thought , and they could detect the creator of that thought .
and we in the west couldn &apos;t understand how anybody could do this , and how much that would limit freedom of speech .
in our own countries , we would never do that .
but today in 2011 , if you buy a new color laser printer from the leading laser printing factories and print a page , this page has printed bright yellow blobs on each side in a pattern that clearly leaves the page to you and your printer .
this is what happens to us today .
and nobody seems to be upset about that .
and this was an example of how our own governments are using technology against us , the citizens .
he doesn &apos;t have a piece of paper , he doesn &apos;t have a pen , he doesn &apos;t have a tape recorder .
and this is one of the three main sources of the problems that existing online today .
let &apos;s look at what &apos;s really going on in the world : we can split the attacks into categories .
we have three main groups .
there are online criminals .
for example , this is mr. dimitry golubow from jaw in ukraine .
and online criminals &apos; motives are very easy to understand .
these people make money .
they use online attacks to make a lot of money , a huge amount of money .
there are several known cases of online millionaires , multimillionaires , who have made their money from attacks .
this is wladimir tsastsin from tartu in estonia .
so he starts to climb up this old climb in him , like i &apos;m going to lose this thing , and he &apos;s going to be tracked by this song forever .
this is alfred gonzalez .
stephen watts .
bjurine sundin .
these are matthew anderson , tariq al-daour and so on and so on .
these people have come online to wealth , but they have acquired it illegal by using , for example , trojans to steal money from our bank accounts while we &apos;re doing our online banking , or keyloggers , who have collected our credit card information on the keyboard , while we &apos;re buying on an infected computer online .
the u.s. intelligence agency frog two months ago the swiss account of mr. sam jain here , and that account was 14.9 million u.s. dollars when it was frozen .
mr. jain himself is on a free foot , the location is unknown .
and i would argue that today it &apos;s more likely to be victims of an online crime than a crime in the real world .
and it &apos;s very obvious that this is just going to get worse .
in the future , most crimes will play online .
i &apos;m not good enough , i can &apos;t do it .
the second largest group of attacks that we see today are not motivated by money .
they &apos;re motivated by something else -- protests , for example , an opinion , or through their audience .
groups like anonymous have come up over the last 12 months , and have become one of the main players in online attacks .
so these are the three major attacks : criminals who are doing it for the money , hackactivists like anonymous , who are doing it , but the last group are nations , governments , who are leading attacks .
we have cases like diginotar .
it shows examples of what happens when governments attack their own citizens .
diginotar is a full-scale certificate from the netherlands -- or was it .
last fall , it had to sign insolvine , because diginotar had been hacked .
somebody had broken in , and they had really hacked the system .
and last week in a meeting with dutch government representatives , i asked one of the senior leaders of this group to ask if he was able to do it , that people had died because of the diginotar hack .
but instead of getting in panic , he just stopped .
and his answer was yes .
now , how do people die as a result of a hack like this ?
diginotar is a certification site .
they sell certificates .
what do you do with certificates ?
well , a certificate , if you have a website with https , you have ssl encrypted services , like gmail .
now we all , or many of us , use gmail or one of our competitors , but these services are particularly prevalent in totalitarian states like iran , where dissidents use foreign providers like gmail , because they know that they can trust them more than local providers and that they &apos;re encrypted over ssl connections , so that the local government can &apos;t sniff around in their conversations .
but you can , if you &apos;re in a foreign domestic .
hacking certification agencies and making fake certificates .
and that &apos;s exactly what happened in the case of diginotar .
he ended the whole thought and did something completely new .
how about the arab spring and the things that happened in egypt , for example ?
now , in egypt , the insurgency in april , 2011 , was the headquarters of the egyptian intelligence police , and they found a lot of records .
in these acts , a folder was called &quot; finfisher . &quot;
and in this folder , there were notes from a local company in germany that the egyptian government had sold a few programs that they could -- in a very large way -- capture any communication of the egyptian citizens .
they had sold this program for 280,000 dollars to the egyptian government .
the corporate headquarters are right here .
so western governments are providing totalitarian governments so that they can go against their own citizens .
but western governments also help themselves .
for example , in germany , just a few weeks ago , the so-called state strojury , which was a trojan who was used by german government officials to occupy their own citizens .
if you &apos;re suspected in a criminal case , it &apos;s pretty safe to tap your phone .
he just looked in the sky and said , excuse me , can &apos;t you see i &apos;m driving ?
but today we are far beyond that .
they tap into their internet connection .
they use tools like the statesman to play their computer with a trojan that allows them to monitor their entire communication , to listen to their online discussions , to collect their passwords .
so if we keep thinking about things like this , the obvious answer of people would be , &quot; ok , that sounds bad , but i don &apos;t care because i &apos;m a good citizen .
i don &apos;t have to worry .
i have nothing to hide . &quot;
and that argument doesn &apos;t make sense .
privacy must be given .
privacy is not about the debate .
it &apos;s not a decision between privacy and security .
i look like i could just write down a song ?
it &apos;s a choice between freedom and control .
and while today , in 2011 , we may trust our governments , every right we give is given forever .
and do we trust , do we blindly trust any future government , any government that we might have in 50 years ?
these are the questions that we have to deal with for the next 50 years .
it may seem strange to you , but i &apos;m a big fan of concrete blockstones .
the first concrete blocks were made in 1868 , and they came from a simple idea : module from cement with solid measurements that fit together .
concrete building blocks quickly became the most master-used building unit in the world .
they put us in a position to build things bigger than us , buildings , bridges , one stone at a time .
basically , the concrete building block had become the building block of our time .
almost a hundred years later , in 1947 , lego came out with this .
it &apos;s so wonderful . you have to protect it . &quot;
if you really want to exist , come back to a cheaper moment , if i can take care of you .
it was called the automatically bonding stone .
and within a few years , lego moved into every household .
it &apos;s estimated that over 400 billion stones were produced -- or 75 stones for every person on the planet .
they don &apos;t have to be an engineer to create beautiful houses , beautiful bridges or beautiful buildings .
lego made it possible for everyone .
lego basically took the concrete block , the building block of the world , and made it a building block for our imagination .
in the meantime , the bell labs announced the next revolution in the same year , the next building block .
the transistor was a little plastic unit that would bring us from a world of static , stacked building blocks to a world where everything was interactive .
like the concrete block , the transistor allows us to build much larger , more complex cycles , one stone at a time .
but there &apos;s a major difference : the transistor was only for experts .
if not , squawks someone else today .
i personally don &apos;t accept that the building block of our time is reserved for experts , and so i decided to change that .
eight years ago , i was at the media lab , and i started to explore this idea of how to put the power of engineers in the hands of artists and designers .
a few years ago , i started to develop littlebits .
let me show you how they work .
littlebits are electronic modules that have a specific function .
they &apos;re preferred , light , sound , engine and sensor .
and the best part is that they connect with magnets .
so you can &apos;t put them in the wrong way .
the stones are color coded .
green is output , blue is electricity , pink is input , and orange is cable .
go and squawk leonard cohen .
so all you have to do is connect a blue and a green one , and you can quickly build bigger cycles .
they add a blue to a green , and they can make light .
you can put a switch in between , and so you created a little dimmer .
take the switch out to put in a pulsmodule , which is here , and they made a little blinker .
add this buzzer for an additional effect , and they made a noise machine .
i &apos;m going to stop that .
beyond the simple game , littlebits is actually quite powerful .
instead of having to code , wired or delete , littlebits allow them to code with simple , intuitive gestures .
so to accelerate or slow the blind , they just turn on this button , and it makes the impulse faster or slower .
the idea behind littlebits is that it &apos;s a growing library .
his whole work process has changed after that .
we want to bring every single interaction in the world into a useful stone .
lights , sounds , solar elements , motors -- everything should be available .
we &apos;ve distributed littlebits to children , and we &apos;ve seen them play with it .
and it was an incredible experience .
the most beautiful thing is , how do you start to understand the electronics that surround you in your everyday life and that you don &apos;t learn in school ?
for example , how a nighttime light works , or why the doors of the elevator remain open , or how an ipod responds to touch .
we also brought littlittlite to design schools .
so we had , for example , designers with no experience whatsoever in electronic things that started playing with littlebits as a material .
here we see , with film , paper and water bottles , like geordie ...
a few weeks ago , we brought littlebits to risd , and we gave them some designers who had no technical experience -- just cardboard , wood and paper -- and told them , &quot; do something . &quot;
not the work itself . it was still as dark as ever .
here &apos;s an example of a project that they did , a motion-controlled confetti-cannon .
but wait , this is really my favorite project .
it &apos;s a bumblebee of play-doh that &apos;s scared in the darkness .
for these non-engineers , littlebits became another material , electronics just became another material .
and we want to make this material available to everybody .
so littlebits is open source .
you can go to the website , download all the design facilities and make them yourself .
we want to encourage the world of the creators , the inventors , the contributors , because this world that we live in , this interactive world , belongs to us .
so , go ahead and start inventing them .
thank you .
but the process and the hard bumping that surrounds it was lifted when he took the genius out , where he didn &apos;t cause anything as an anger and left it to where it came from , and he realized that it didn &apos;t have to be an internal , agonizing thing .
there could be a strange , wonderful , bizarre collaboration , a kind of conversation between tom and the foreign , external thing that was not quite tom .
when i heard this story , it changed a little bit the way i worked , and it saved me .
this idea saved me when i was in the middle of writing , pray , love , and i fell into one of these graves of the doubt that we all fall into when we &apos;re working on something and it doesn &apos;t work . you start to think it &apos;s going to be a disaster . this is going to be the worst book ever written .
not just bad , but the worst of all time .
they call themselves the older brothers and say that we are responsible for the younger brothers , for the destruction of the world .
i started thinking , i should just come up with the project .
but then i remembered tom talking in the open sky , and i tried .
so i took my view of the manuscript , and i spoke my commentary towards a blank corner of the room .
i said , &quot; listen , you know , you , you and i both know , if this book is not brilliant , it &apos;s not completely my fault , right ? &quot;
because you see , i &apos;m investing everything i have . i don &apos;t have that anymore .
so if you want to have it better , you have to cross here and hold your percentage of the deal .
okay . but if you don &apos;t do that -- you know what the hell it is .
i &apos;m still going to write , because that &apos;s my job .
and i would like to give to protocols that i was here today for my part of the job .
because ... at the end , it &apos;s like this . centuries ago , in the deserts of north africa , people have gathered people to moonshine with holy dances and music that have been held for hours -- until dawn .
now this level of intuition becomes very important .
these solids were always great , because the dancers were professional , and they were fantastic .
but every once in a while , very rarely , something special happened . one of the performers actually became overseas .
and i know you know what i mean , because i know you &apos;ve all seen a performance in your life .
it was like the time to stand still , and the dancer came through a kind of pform , and he didn &apos;t do anything other than he had ever done before -- 1,000 nights before , but everything came together .
and all of a sudden , he no longer appeared to be completely human .
he was lit up from the inside and lit up from the bottom , and everything was illuminating through a divine fire .
when something like this happened , people knew what it was . they called it on his name .
they put their hands together , and they started singing , like , ooh , allah , allah , god , god , god .
that &apos;s god , you know ?
interesting historical footnote : when the mobes were conquering south spain , they brought this practice , and the language changed over the centuries of the allah , allah , allah , allah , olé , olé , which you still hear when you &apos;re fighting and hearing flamenco dances .
every time we think of native and landscape , we either conjure rousseau and the old framework of the nobler wild , which , in its simplification , is a racial thought , or thoreau , and say , these people are more connected to nature than we are .
if a performer in spain did something impossible , something magical , that is , in olé , olé , allah , great , bravo , there it is : a glimpse of god .
and that &apos;s great , because we need that .
but , the tricky part follows the next morning , when the dancer wakes up himself and realizes that it &apos;s 11 o &apos;clock on a tuesday -- and he &apos;s no longer wearing a fifth of god .
he &apos;s just an aging mortal with painful knees , and maybe he &apos;ll never get up to those heights .
and maybe no one will ever call god &apos;s name when he turns , but what will he do with the rest of his life ?
that &apos;s hard .
this is one of the most painful corrections of a creative life .
but maybe it doesn &apos;t have to be quite as full of embarrassment if you didn &apos;t believe from the beginning that the most extraordinary aspects of your existence came from you .
if you may just believe that you &apos;re a loan -- of an unthinkable source for a reader time of your life , which is passed on to someone else when you &apos;re done with it .
when we start thinking about it , it changes everything .
so , indigenous people are not sentimental , nor are they chosen by the nostalgia .
so i started thinking , and so i certainly think in the last few months , while i &apos;ve been working on the book that &apos;s going to seem soon -- when the dangerous , scary , well-expected successor of my unexpected success .
what i have to say to myself all the time when i get crazy about this is , don &apos;t be afraid .
don &apos;t be discouraged .
just do your job .
continue to be there for your contribution , whatever he might be .
when your job is dancing , dancing .
if the dumb divine genius that you &apos;re put aside decides , for a moment , to show a smoke of wonder through your efforts , then a cluster !
and if not , still dance your dance .
and , you know , in spite of all of that .
i believe in it , and i feel like we should teach that .
there &apos;s not a lot of room for this in the malaria swamp of asmat or the cold winds of tibet , but they still , through time and ritual , have shaped a mysterious nimbus of the earth , which is not based on the idea of being close to you , but on a much more subtle intuition , the idea that the earth itself can only exist because it is breathed into the human consciousness .
ooh ! for you , in spite of all of this , just because you have the mere human love and the sense of being there .
thank you .
thank you .
olé !
last year , i showed these two slides to illustrate that the arctic ice caps , which for nearly three million years had the size of the bottom 48 states , has shrunk 40 percent .
but that doesn &apos;t press the seriousness of this particular problem , because it doesn &apos;t show the thick of the ice .
in a sense , the arctic ice caps is the beating heart of our global climate system .
it grows in the winter and shrinks in the summer .
the next slide i &apos;m going to show you is a time-lapse shot of what &apos;s happened in the last 25 years .
the permanent ice is marked with red .
now , what does that mean ?
as you can see , it grows on the dark blue . this is the annual ice in the winter , and it shrinks in the summer .
the so-called permanent ice , five years old or older , is almost like blood that &apos;s going out of the body here .
in 25 years , it &apos;s going to be gone from here to here .
this is a problem , because warming is looking at the frozen reason around the arctic ocean , where there &apos;s huge amounts of frozen carbon , which , when it &apos;s looking up , is transformed from microbes to methane .
compared to the entire amount of climate change materials in the atmosphere , that amount could double if we cross that critical point .
already today in some flat lakes in alaska methane itself from water .
professor katey walter at the university in alaska has traveled to another group of work to another flat lake last winter .
wow !
you &apos;re good . the question is , how are we going to do it ?
and one reason is that this enormous heat sheet heats greenland from the north .
it means that a little child from the andean who grows up in the belief that the mountain is an apu-spirit that determines his or her destiny will be a very different person , and will have a different relationship with this resource or this place than a little child in montana who grows up in the belief that a mountain is a bunch of rocks that can be carried off .
this is an annual dive water flow .
but the volume is significantly bigger than ever before .
this is the cangerlussuaq river in southwest greenland .
if you want to know how the sea level goes through land ice sheet , it &apos;s going up into the sea here .
these rivers are rapidly gaining .
on the other end of the planet , antarctica , the largest ice mass on the planet .
last month , researchers reported that the entire continent now has a negative ice footprint .
and the west antarctica , which has emerged over a few underwater islands , is particularly strong in melting .
this is 20 feet in the sea , like greenland .
in the himalayas , the third largest ice mass , you see new lakes up there that were glaciers a few years ago .
whether it &apos;s a location of mind or a bunch of ore , it &apos;s irrelevant .
40 percent of all the people in the world get half of their drinking water from that melting water .
in the andean , this glacier is the drinking water source for this city .
the water levels have expanded .
but if you seal , most of the drinking water will fall away .
in california , a 40 percent reduction in the snow ceiling of the sierra .
this is the storage basins .
and the predictions , as you &apos;ve read them , are serious .
this austroke in the world leads to a dramatic increase in fire .
and the catastrophes all over the world have taken in a really extraordinary and unprecedented extent .
four times as many in the last 30 years as in the previous 75 .
the interesting thing is the metaphor that defines the relationship between the individual and the nature .
this is a completely unsustainable development pattern .
if you look at this in the historical context , you can see what it &apos;s doing .
in the last five years , we &apos;ve produced 70 million tons of co2 every 24 hours -- 25 million tons a day in the oceans .
look closely at the realm of the eastern pacific , the american continent in west and both sides of the indian subcontinent , where there is a dramatic decline in oxygen in the ocean .
the biggest single factor of global warming , besides deforestation , which is 20 percent , is burning fossil fuels .
oil is a problem , and coal is the biggest problem .
the united states is one of the biggest pollutants , along with china .
and the proposal was to build lots of other coal factories .
but we &apos;re starting to see a change .
here are the ones that have been stripped over the last few years , with some green alternatives that have been proposed .
i grew up in the forests of british colombia and believed that these forests are there to be relieved .
meanwhile , there &apos;s a political argument in our country .
and the coal industry and oil industries spent a quarter of a billion dollars last year on calendars to promote clean coal , which is a contradiction in itself .
this picture reminded me of something .
christmas , i was running around at home in tennessee , a billion tons of coal lamb .
you &apos;ve seen it in the news , apparently .
this is all over our country the second largest waste flow of america .
this happened at christmas .
one of the commercials of the coal industry was this one .
frosty the carbon man is a happy , happy guy .
it &apos;s in shell and abundance in america , and it helps to grow our economy .
and that made me another person than my friends under the kwakiutl who believe that these forests of the hukuk and the curved sky and the cannibali spirits that live in the northeast of the world , spirits that they would be involved in their hamasa-initiation .
frosty , the carbon man gets cleaner every day .
he &apos;s affordable and loving , and workers stay in wage and bread .
this is the source of most coal in west virginia .
the most powerful miner is the head of massey coal .
let me make it clear . al gore , nancy pelosi , harry reid , you don &apos;t know what you &apos;re talking about .
so the alliance for climate change has created two campaigns .
this is one , one part of it .
at coalergy , we see climate change as a serious threat to our business .
so we set it up to the top line to spend a significant amount of money to get a commercial action on the way to get the truth about coal .
in fact , coal is not dirty .
now , when you start looking at the idea that these cultures can create different realities , you can understand some of their extraordinary discoveries , like this plant here .
we think it &apos;s clean -- and it smells good .
so , don &apos;t worry about climate change .
let &apos;s leave it quiet .
clean coal , you &apos;ve heard a lot about it .
so let &apos;s take a tour of this modern , clean coal factory .
fantastic ! this machine is pretty noisy .
but it &apos;s the sound of clean coal technology .
and yet , burning coal is one of the main reasons for global warming , the remarkably clean coal technology that you see here is changing everything .
look at it carefully , this is today &apos;s clean coal technology .
finally , the positive alternative mixes with our economic challenge and our challenge of national security .
all of these people teach us that there are other ways of being , other ways of thinking , other ways of orienting on earth .
it &apos;s a photograph i just took last april in the northwest of the amazon .
america is in a crisis , the economy , the national security , the climate crisis .
the red thread that connects them all is our dependence on carbon based fuels like dirty coal and foreign oil .
but now there &apos;s a bold , new solution to get us out of this miserable situation .
restore america with 100 percent clean electricity in the next 10 years .
a plan to bring america back to work , to make us safer and to help stop global warming .
finally , a solution that &apos;s big enough to solve our problems .
take care of america . find out more .
this is the last one .
it &apos;s about a new supply of america .
one of the fastest ways to reduce our dependence on old , dirty fuels that are exploring our world .
this is ayahuasca , which many of you have heard about , the strongest psychoactive preference from the repertoire of the shaman .
the future is here . wind , sun and a new energy system .
new investments to create well-paid jobs .
new supply of america . it &apos;s time to accept reality .
there &apos;s an old african saying : &quot; if you want to be fast , go alone .
if you want to get far , go together . &quot;
we have to get far , fast .
thank you .
i want to start by asking you to think back to your childhood when you were playing with building blocks .
as they realized how to reach out and grab the hands , pick up the blocks and move , they actually learned how to think and solve problems by understanding and changing spatial coherence .
the spatial thinking is closely connected to how we understand a lot of our environment .
as a computer scientist -- inspired by the kind of interaction with real objects -- with my expert patti and my colleague jeevan kalanithi , i began to wonder : what if we could use computers that , instead of using a mouse time , that moves like a digital fingertip on a flat surface ... what if we could intervene with both hands and physically grab data and put it in the way we want it ?
this question was so profound that we decided to explore the answer and develop siftables .
in short , a siftable is an interactive computer the size of a cookie .
they can be moved by the hand , they can perceive each other , they can detect their movements , and they have a screen and a radio receiver .
more importantly , they &apos;re physical , so you can only move them like building blocks just by extending your hands and access .
and the siftables are an example of a new generation of tools to manipulate digital data .
and if these tools become more physical and develop a awareness of their movements , recognize each other and perceive the subtleties of our relationship with them , then we can begin to explore new and entertaining interactions .
i &apos;m going to start with some simple examples .
this siftable is configured for the video review , and when i tip it in one direction , the video is played forward ; when i tip it in the other direction , it &apos;s going backwards .
and these interactive portraits are perceiving each other .
this plant contains some very strong tryptamins that are very similar to the serotonin , dimethyltryptamin 5 and methoxydimethyltryptamin .
so if i put them side by side , that &apos;s what interests them .
if you &apos;re surrounded by the people , you &apos;ll notice that , and you can get a little nervous .
and they also feel their movements and their tendency .
and an interesting consequence of the interactions that we started to see was that we could apply everyday gestures to data , like putting color in the way that you do it with fluids .
in this case , we configured three siftables as color pots , and i can use them to pour color in the middle where they &apos;re mixed .
if we exaggerate it , we can shake back a little bit .
there are also some nice opportunities in education like languages , math or logic games , where we give people the possibility of fast trial and see the results immediately .
here i am -- this is a fibonacci series that i make with a simple equation program .
this is a game with words that &apos;s a kind of mixture of scrabble and boggle .
basically , you get every round on every sift at random , and as you try to form words , they get tested over a dictionary .
if you &apos;ve seen the yanomami , they &apos;re sniffing this stuff , this substance that they &apos;re making from different species also contains methoxydimethyltryptamin .
then , after about 30 seconds , you get mixed again , and you have a new combination of letters and you try new possibilities .
thank you .
these are some kids who came on a trip to the media lab , and i could get them to try it out and take a video of it .
they really loved it .
one interesting thing about this kind of application is that you don &apos;t have to give people a lot of instructions .
all you have to say is &quot; form words , &quot; and they know exactly what to do .
here are some people who are testing it .
this is our youngest beta tester down there on the lower right .
it turns out he just wanted to stack the siftables .
so for him , they were just building blocks .
sniff this powder is sort of like being shot out of a rifle , saturated by baroque paintings and the landing on a sea of electricity .
this is an interactive animation .
we wanted to develop a tool for language learners .
this is felix .
he can bring new characters into the scene by lifting the siftable from the table that shows this character .
here he &apos;s going to let the sun go .
the sun rises .
now he &apos;s going to bring a tractor into the scene .
the orange tractor .
good work ! yes !
by shaking the siftables and putting them side-by-side , he can let the characters interact ...
it &apos;s not generated by distortion of reality , but it &apos;s the resolution of reality .
... invent his own story .
hello !
it &apos;s a story with open end , and it can decide how it &apos;s evolving .
flying cat .
the last example that i have time for you today to show it is a music sequencer for live performance that we &apos;ve recently developed and operate in the siftables as sound , like leadership , bass and drums .
each has four different variations ; you can choose which one wants to use .
and you can put these sounds in the sequence that you can put in any pattern .
and you &apos;re eating them by just holding a clay juice to a sequence sift .
there are effects that you can change live , like hall and filters .
you connect it to a particular tone , and then you tilt it to the post .
in fact , i &apos;ve discussed with my professor , richard evan shultes , the man who introduced the psychedelic branch with the discovery of the magic mushrooms in mexico in the 30s , and i &apos;ve suggested that you couldn &apos;t put these tryptamins as hallucinators , because the moment you feel the impact , you &apos;re not there to experience a hallucination .
and then there are super-ordered effects like speed and volume that you apply to the whole sequence .
so let &apos;s see .
we start with the leadership voice in two sequencing seats and put it in a row , expand it and add a little bit more of the voice .
now i &apos;m adding a bass .
now i &apos;m going to do some more drums .
and now i &apos;m going to connect the filter to the drums so that i can control the effect live .
i can accelerate the whole sequence by kicking the pace in one way or another .
and now i &apos;m going to combine the filter with the barrel , for a little more expression .
i can reframe the sequence as it &apos;s going on .
so i don &apos;t have to plan them in the field , but i can improvise them ; i can extend them or shorter them during the process .
but the thing about tryptamins is that they can &apos;t be taken in oral because , of course , by a human intestine , they &apos;re called monoamine oxidase .
and finally , i can shut out the whole sequence by leaning the volume juice to the left .
thank you .
so as you can see , my excitement is to develop new human-computer interfaces that fit better with how our brains and bodies work .
and today i had time to show you a part of this new design world and some of the ways that we work on in our lab .
the idea that i want to leave you with is that we &apos;re at the threshold of this new generation of tools for interacting with digital media that bring information to our world that corresponds to our demands .
thank you .
i &apos;m looking forward to talking to all of you .
yeah , good afternoon .
i &apos;m glad i &apos;m there .
yeah , so , what should be biohacking ?
they can only be interconnected with some other chemicals , and they can only be used to denatulate the mao .
i &apos;ve got to do that a little bit , and that &apos;s biohacking just dealing with modern molecular biology .
i study molecular biology , and i &apos;ve been involved in biohacking for a couple of years now , and i started that , because i just wanted to know more about it , and i wanted to do it myself , which i &apos;ve learned theoretically in the study .
so , that was my primary motivation .
so it was a curiosity , and i wanted to sort of get closer to the matter , like that .
i think that molecular biology in general now , in general , talks , biotechnology , everything you count , synthetic biology and so on .
extremely important , now extremely important , and much , much more important will be in the future .
there are some controversial things like all these genetically engineered plants on the apples .
there are now craig venter in the u.s. who &apos;s trying to make biofuel , which is gasoline from algae .
and then there are some things that have come in completely day-to-day , but most people are not aware of , like washing enzymes that allow us to wash at 40 degrees of laundry are also genetically engineered enzymes .
and you can continue the list endlessly .
and this is an idea that , if you think about it , can only fulfill you with hope .
now the fascinating thing is that the betakarboline , which is contained in the liane , are mao-inhibitors of exactly the kind that &apos;s necessary to potentially power the tryptamins , so ask yourself .
and so from the interest in this technology , i just kept going in there .
that &apos;s why hacking now ?
most people know this from the software area .
computers hack , and then in the media it will always be like this , yes , the hackers will break in some place and cute data and so on .
and that &apos;s kind of very sad for the hacking scene , because that &apos;s not what it really started to do , and what &apos;s really behind it .
and that is , the software hackers , in the &apos; 70s , started with computer tinkering , and that &apos;s what the internet came out of .
and it &apos;s about solving a problem in a playful , creative , original way .
and the problem is , it &apos;s not just a technical problem , it can be a social problem , it can also be just a problem with access , which is simple to do , so any problem , you throw up a question , and how do you do it better , or how do you do it better ?
and it &apos;s just been raised with software , but there &apos;s also an electronics area , and there &apos;s also a whole bathing scene that does electronics circuits all kinds of things .
and now , just in the direction of biology , and i want to take this metaphor that comes from synthetic biology , that biology is actually an information science , because , the d.n.a code is an abstract code that , yes , it &apos;s not quite the same as computers , because it &apos;s more dynamic , because it &apos;s matter , so it &apos;s real matter , and not just cyber .
how can these people from a flora of 80,000 species of adstrinary plants find these two morphologically unrelated plants that , when combined in this way , create a kind of biochemical version , so that the whole thing is larger than the sum of its parts ?
but it &apos;s also a code , and you can program it , and you can also hack it , like that , and i found that incredibly fascinating , and i just wanted to get a lot deeper .
it &apos;s actually only taken about two thousand shapes , these networks .
there &apos;s hackteria dot org , which is originally from switzerland , which is with europe and with a cooperation in india based on the network , but now has members or active people all over the world .
this is a more artistic orientation , so there &apos;s a lot of artists and philosophers and working with scientists to deal with these technologies and to ask them questions and to work creatively , there &apos;s museum exhibitions and yes , all kinds of things .
but it &apos;s really all about finding this kind of a locker access to having this kind of playful thing .
and then there &apos;s do-it-yourself bio dot org , d.i.y.bio .
this is from the united states , a network , which is actually more of a kind of forum where you &apos;re going to meet and discuss online .
they &apos;re a little bit more technical , and they &apos;re also a little bit more business , and then they &apos;re also asked , yes , applied questions .
and from these networks that have made the whole popular , there &apos;s been a scene that i just want to portray for a moment .
here in the image on the top left , you see biocurious , which is a hackerspace , so basically a kind of school , a private school , nonprofit unification , where everybody can come from .
we use this great euphemism , trial and error , which turns out to be meaningless .
kids , old , all kinds of people go there just to deal with it , they set up a lab and look at what can you do when these lab protocols are on .
here on the bottom left is a group in indonesia , house-of-natural fiber , which is called , but it &apos;s been around for quite a long time .
for longer than these other two networks .
they &apos;re also involved in an artistic aspect of biological materials , and , yes , electronics , and they &apos;re combining that in a very delicate way .
a group from ankara , who i met a while ago , who have this is a group of students who wanted to communicate more to the public what they &apos;re learning in college , and they &apos;ve been doing this on street fests and trying to explain to people what that is .
and i have a lecture at the top of the other image in copenhagen at the medical museum in combination with an exhibition on the topic .
and that is , yes , these are mostly quite young people , but the only thing that really brings you all together is this fascination of technology .
and what you can do with it , and also very targeted to society to go and ask , &quot; okay , what do you know , what do you want to do with it ? &quot;
so , o.k , in order to hack biology , you need some material .
you need biological materials , of course , and you also need tools , and that &apos;s a lab .
but if you ask the indians , they say , &quot; the plant talks to us . &quot;
or what you normally normally understand under a lab is that these are sort of drifted machines , extremely expensive , extremely distant , just for professionals , trained academics with ph.d. , and so on .
and our approach was to say , okay , you don &apos;t really have to do that .
it &apos;s actually not necessary because every coffee machine has actually more sophisticated technology than most laboratories , which is really what it is .
and s o with this premise with this premise then , for example , brian degger in england tried to put together a minimum abor , then took a steam pressure pot , a heating plate , and , yes , so soup breaks , and then grew bacteria , works .
so anyone who &apos;s been playing a soup that they &apos;ve left for too long has been done .
i then tried this in my lab to expand a little bit , and then i bought the second-hand equipment on ebay , and i did some d.n.a analysis , tried a paternity test , which is , like , / n.a fingerprinting , to do it back home again .
it shouldn &apos;t be a joke at all , but it shouldn &apos;t be .
down here in the picture , you see the lab , in leadership strikes , so there &apos;s this kind of admitted garage with all kinds of labels that the university has been doing , a group in paris that &apos;s been pretty successful with what &apos;s been doing and is doing quite interesting things , and i just want to cut a project for a second .
and this is biocurious , who just mentioned hackerspace , this kind of folk school , basically for molecular biology .
and yeah , so , you can see it &apos;s relatively heterogeneous , so that &apos;s a lot of people who are doing it on their own , all the way to large , larger organizations that are doing it more in an institutionalized form .
so , what does that mean ?
but it &apos;s always the approach that it &apos;s supposed to be simple and accessible .
the first project that we did as an international group , when we sort of became aware of ourselves , o.k , we &apos;re now as a real scene , and we &apos;re online , and we know the people who are always chatting and so on .
and then the do-it-yourself website just came from the founder &apos;s do-yourself website , and it said , &quot; okay , we have to actually meet now , also meet real , and then organized two events , one in london , two thousand , and just after that , in the u.s. , in san francisco . &quot;
and , you know , it &apos;s also about , yeah , who are we , what do we want , what do we want to share ?
and what are our values and what are our goals , our foundation ?
and then we worked out a code-of-conduct .
that was quite intuitive , so everybody just had their wishes , their and what moves it , then they expressed .
that &apos;s where , i think , a very good code came from .
and we didn &apos;t have that one , but that &apos;s kind of , i think , a pretty good thing to do , and people are quite convinced of that .
and we even tried to bring that back to the academic world , but somehow it didn &apos;t get there .
this tribe , the cofan , has 17 varieties of ayahuasca that you all recognize at a distance in the forest that seems to be a species for our eyes .
so i think we &apos;re out of the biohacker scene , in fact , a step further than the academic world .
yeah , what kind of projects do we actually do now ?
one project that i did with the hackteria network in switzerland itself was that we wanted to build something called an optical trap or an optical pink .
this is , if you focus a laser beam on you in the room , you can catch little particles in the air , or in the liquid , and then move in that focus , so it &apos;s captured , like a tractor beam , basically .
this really works , this is done in the academic setting , and we thought , o.k , we might get it right , and then we took a webcam that screwed up , turned the lens off , and then you have a microscope that &apos;s going up about four hundred times .
this is what you see down there .
and then we put a d.v.d brenner together , and we pulled the laser out , and then we tried to focus on this camera .
and it didn &apos;t work , unfortunately , but we &apos;ve learned a lot about it anyway .
another project that came from the french group in paris , which is quite cool .
and he &apos;s got this kind of thing , you know , this kind of brain wave detection device , this e.e.g or something , so he &apos;s been looking at neurobiology , his nickname is sam neurohack .
and then they ask them how to start their taxonomy , and they say , &quot; i thought you understood something about plants .
he then built this helmet there , and in the cooperation with the museum , that &apos;s what went on .
and then the visitors could go into the room , sit on this chair , sit down this helmet .
then their brainwaves were measured , and depending on what they thought , or how they thought , they went to different lights in the room .
it was a pretty fortunate project .
another thing from the united states , which has to do with this paternity story , is the p.c.r , which is the polymer chain response , complicated word .
so it &apos;s about copying genes , replicating them , d.n.a , making fragments so that you can see them .
so if i do this , the profilers at the scene of the crime , go , collect some hair samples , and then they do this method , and then they can say , o.k , this hair belongs to this person , like this .
and the machines that do this , they &apos;re pretty expensive to buy commercially , the cheapest ones go off at four thousand euros .
and that &apos;s not in the hobbyists , but it &apos;s a really cool technology that can do a lot of things .
so this is just one application of many that you can do with this .
i mean , you know nothing at all ? &quot; and i said , &quot; no . &quot;
and they &apos;ve been running down two builders , and they &apos;ve said , o.k , we &apos;re going to make it easier and cheaper , and then they &apos;re just out of open source , so free hardware , electronics stuff , and they &apos;re going to assemble this device , and they &apos;re now the cheapest supply of these devices in the world .
i think , sort of , six hundred dollars or something like that .
but anyway , it &apos;s still not cheap now , but it &apos;s certainly in a framework where it &apos;s clearly available .
so , i think it &apos;s a very yellow hack .
one project that i had recently started building was a gene gun .
gene-gun is , yes , like a kind of air pressure gun , which shoots about this far , two centimeters or so .
you invite d.n.a to gold particles and then the gold particles into these air pressure pistol , and then i shot them on onions , and then i brought them to light .
so the device that you see there didn &apos;t work .
but this is my sort of prototype that i did , but it was pretty much , sort of , like , on a branch , the thing on it , put electronics on it and pressure on it , and that was the pressure that was too high , the thing was broken .
and then i took a juicer and i put it in there .
so , it turns out that you take each of the 17 variants in the full moon and they sing you in a different pitch .
a hnespender , if you make the full of water , has enough pressure , so i think that &apos;s 40 to six feet .
and then you can accelerate the particles a lot enough , and then they go into the onion .
and the commercial device costs about five thousand euros up , or something like that , beans about 50 .
so it doesn &apos;t have the same efficiency , but it &apos;s basically feasible .
and so that &apos;s the core cause of the scene right now , is to increase this availability of technology and also increase the information and the understanding that more people can get involved in it .
because , as i said at the beginning , it &apos;s an extremely important technology , and most people have relatively little idea of it , and also no chance of making it really well .
because if you just read about it , from secondary literature , that &apos;s not the same as if you &apos;ve done it yourself or seen it .
and i think technology is becoming more and more important in our modern societies .
and if you want to be an informed citizen to make meaningful decisions in society and to be able to talk , you need access to knowledge and to technology .
and you also have to do it and understand it to make it and understand it .
now , this doesn &apos;t give you a ph.d. at harvard , but it &apos;s much more interesting than counting tribal .
and that then fires under the headwords of open knowledge and citizen science .
so that you , as citizens , are being able to deal with these scientific technologies .
and that &apos;s the core cause of the biohackers .
these are the people who were at least officially engaged on the website , d.i.y.bio-dot-org website .
this is already a relatively remarkable number of people around the world .
and what &apos;s also interesting is that they &apos;re also represented in southeast asia .
that &apos;s what i think they &apos;re in there , they &apos;re less people than they &apos;re actually there .
so i know some of you who haven &apos;t worn .
and these are just the biohackers , the individual people .
in part , with these hackerspaces , which is to put these places together .
