you know , one of the great sensitives of traveling and one of the joys about ethnography is to live with the people who can still remember the old days , who still feel their past in the wind , touch them on the rains , taste them in the bitter leaves of the plants .
together , the myriad cultures of the world are a web of spiritual and cultural life that surrounds the earth and is as important for the earth &apos;s good , as the biological life web that you know as a biosphere .
now , the problem is that even those of us who have sympathy for the difficult condition of the innate , look at them as orginial and colorful , but they sort of narrow to the past , while the real world , that is , our world , is progressing .
and that &apos;s in the beginning .
as i said , two-thousandth , it just started .
and hackerspaces , the computer hackerspaces , because the c-base in berlin was the first , ninety-five .
and this has now become a huge network of very good , yes , infrastructural centers that are represented all over the world .
and we hope , of course , that we &apos;ll be able to spread similarly and then be connected similarly , so that we can get more involved in people as well .
and i would invite each time to deal with it and also try something .
now it &apos;s not that simple , but it &apos;s not impossible , if you have enough curiosity , and you put enough energy in there , you get a long way .
thank you for listening .
that &apos;s it .
yeah , hello .
so , the fact is that in 300 years , you &apos;re not going to remember the 20th century , you &apos;re not going to remember the war or technical innovation , but rather , you know , an era where we were opposed to and the massive destruction of the biological and cultural diversity on earth was either actively supported or passively accepted . so the problem is not the change .
how do we actually work ?
this is a question that i &apos;m very moved by as a designer , but also in the field of research , and in front of all things in user experience .
it &apos;s about how to encounter people in interactive media so that they can use this interactive media and create a satisfying experience .
because i believe that the interactive media within us is addressing archaic , cognitive models , which is thinking patterns that have been programmed in our biological memory very , very long ago , and that we can just bring it back through interactive media .
and this is very amazing , because you actually believe that this high technology that you &apos;re facing is actually bringing you into the future , but in fact , the future is right with us , in our archaic roots .
now , what are archaic models ?
i once wrote down four words , and i &apos;d like to explain them briefly .
to archaic cognitive models , these are the models that we &apos;ve been able to do in the pre-industrial times .
one of the things about these archaic models is that we have a fundamentally natural relationship with virtuality .
that sounds , in principle , unusual first .
all cultures have been involved again and again in dance with new possibilities of life .
but i &apos;m going to go back to that in a moment and try to prove to you that you also have a natural relationship with virtuality .
the second aspect is that since these archaic models , we &apos;ve been able to speak very , very imagery , even though we &apos;re using a coded language today .
and the third area , which actually explains itself .
we all know that the interactive media is by definition nonlinear , which includes the sense of linearity , and what , of course , tells us that we feel the linearity today is normal .
the fourth thing is that history , for us , is a place of information input .
now , what about the virtuality that &apos;s actually the most natural thing in the world ?
i want to prove that to you .
how many doors does the house you live in ?
we &apos;re not going to be able to spontaneously answer it to me , but this is what &apos;s going to happen , and this is happening right now .
you go through this house in the mind , so you live in the house , and you look at how many doors there are .
and the problem is not technology itself .
and that &apos;s what they do .
they virtualize reality without computers .
fantastic , right ?
and we &apos;re struggling to do this on the media campus , for example , the virtual reality in our v.r. lab , where we can actually do this all the time .
and that capacity to virtualize the virtual reality , which people have had to have bitter in the pre-industrial times , because they didn &apos;t have anything .
they didn &apos;t have books .
or they didn &apos;t have photographics .
they didn &apos;t have mass media .
the only thing they had was their head .
and in that head , the memory was going on .
the sioux indians didn &apos;t stop being less on sioux than they were doing arc and arrow tasks when americans stopped being americans when they were doing horses and horse cars .
in this head , knowledge was called , and with these virtual images , the imagination , knowledge was also passed on .
and that &apos;s why it &apos;s so strong in us that we can deal with virtuality so well .
the interesting thing about this is , if i can take a little trip .
yeah , that &apos;s right .
what &apos;s interesting about this is that at the same time , the human being was media producers and medium itself .
now , if you think a little bit further .
what are media today ?
then you &apos;ll notice that there &apos;s been a change .
but that &apos;s what i &apos;ll talk about in a minute .
fundamental tool of information mediation has been in stories all the time .
it &apos;s not change and technology that threatens the integrity of the ethnosphere ; it &apos;s power ; it &apos;s the ugly face of the rule .
shamanas , priests , so-called knowledge guards , were additional to keeping knowledge in stories .
and even today , we &apos;re still very , very strong in stories .
the author of the book , the storytelling animal , jonathan gotchall , we still combine a thousand hours a year with the recipe of stories .
that means , for a child who has spent most of his life achieving the granddaughter &apos;s prescription of stories .
now we think our love of stories depends on us as a child sitting on the lap of our parents .
no , no , far away .
it goes much further back into pre-industrial cultures .
but for me , in the realm of interactive media , it &apos;s very impressive that we , by se , have anchored in our biological memory , the ability to think nonlinear .
i brought an example to you of the north american tribe of the nootka-indian .
and they lived in the coastal region of british columbia .
and as you can see , this is a very island area , and you had to navigate somehow from island to island to get food .
and they did this with what we call lead-landing .
you may know that if you &apos;re a little bit interested in that , of the australian people .
they have similar principles .
they don &apos;t have lead-landscapes , they &apos;ve used the so-called songlines , or grief paths .
and what &apos;s interesting about this is that the navigation and the topography of regions could be represented through songs .
where the language was subordinated by underlying rang .
that is , you navigate over sound and over rhythm .
and of course , these sounds and this rhythm have the geology that topography is a region , and it also allowed you to defragment these songs and put them differently and move to the left , to the right , and also to the output .
why don &apos;t we sing to get from above to b ?
or if we go to the mountains of tibet , where i study a lot recently , you &apos;ll see the ugly face of political dominance .
anyway , not to navigate .
what actually happened ?
and this is what &apos;s happened in the genus machine age .
we moved in what we call the avian age before .
the machine age has happened , and the book has happened , and it &apos;s the photographics .
and that &apos;s what happened , is that we &apos;ve shifted the responsibility for our memories and the production of our individual memories to external media .
on the book and on the picture .
so , unfortunately , we have a piece of god to virtualize .
virtuality has suddenly become alien to us , and has nothing to do with reality .
bruce brown , a well-known design researcher at brighton university , has gone so far as to say that this mass media , he means the book and the picture , so not the tv , the internet and so on , what we call mass media today , that this mass media has fossilized our memories and has virtualized our ability to virtualize .
you know , the genocide , the physical extinction of people is generally convicted , but the ethnocid , the destruction of people &apos;s lifestyle is not only convicted , but in general and in many ways , celebrated as part of a developmental strategy .
let &apos;s make a little balance .
from the bird age to the machine age .
what &apos;s the impact on our thinking and on our memory ?
then these are the interconnected influences of pre-industrial cultures .
and they &apos;re more and more overwritten over the centuries by the influences of the machine age .
that is , instead of remembering ourselves individually , we have standardized , widespread , crowded patterns of memories that we can hang our personal memories on .
we &apos;re no longer producing ourselves .
we have an abstract abstract language .
we don &apos;t think of it as images anymore , we don &apos;t see things in images , but we codify it to you , our language .
we &apos;ve been used to things happening linear .
and you can &apos;t understand the suffering of tibetan if you haven &apos;t experienced it at the bottom .
and we accepted the linearity as a law , and there are only exceptions like non-linearity .
what we &apos;ve remained is the story story story .
we &apos;re still very , very arrested to the storytelling as an information mediation .
the question is , what &apos;s next ?
we had the vocational age , we had the machine age , and we now described what we call the cyber-age .
it sounds very spacious , and it sounds very much like science fiction , i know .
but these concepts of cyber-age , they bring us back these opportunities to rediscover our capabilities .
it &apos;s about virtuality , it &apos;s about non-linearity , it &apos;s about storytelling .
i want to explain that a little bit for a moment .
there are technical concepts like augmented reality , which means augmented reality .
you can think of this cultural life web as an ethnosphere . ethnosphere can be defined as the total sum of all thoughts and dreams , myths , inspiration and intuitions that have been constructed by the human imagination since the beginnings of consciousness .
i once traveled with a young colleague 6,000 miles from chengdu to west china across southeast tibet to lhasa , and only when i came to lhasa did i see the face behind the statistics that you hear about : 6,000 sacred monuments that were turned into rubble and ashes . 1.2 million people who were murdered during the cultural revolution by the cathers .
so if you look at google glasses , for example , then one of the things that makes us recombine the virtual world with the real world is our affinity to virtualization , which is to feel that virtual is something ordinary , natural , is again addressed .
another example is what we call virtual reality .
so crazy , of course , in the context of my talk , we &apos;re moving physically into non-existing virtual worlds , just like the holodeck model .
and other examples are the ambients , smart systems .
these are spaces that can respond to a human being intelligently .
all of this requires the ability to accept our basic ability to accept virtuality as a real habitat .
i graduated , and i hope the video works , a very , very beautiful project , which is the bachelor work of michael burk , ann-kathrin crence , joris klause and jan-moritz garbage .
and the last two are also here today .
maybe you can stand up for a second so you can talk to the two of them in the break about the project .
and i brought this project back to me as an example of how this archaic , cognitive model is addressed again .
the father of this young man was identified as the follower of the panche lama .
this is a game , i have to say .
which , of course , opposes the story extremely , and it &apos;s a computer game .
and when i say computer games , they &apos;re very likely to be aware that any people in front of any consolation or that they &apos;re playing with the console in their hand .
anyway , that &apos;s what you &apos;re doing in there .
this is a game for the outside .
and that &apos;s designed to think that i &apos;m exploring the outside world , so i &apos;m exploring the real world again .
and this game connects the virtual world , which is the data that we produce with the real world .
i apologize that i have to cut so much .
you can explain that in a moment much better , there &apos;s much more to it than that .
and this is about me exploring a city by looking at the places that are positive or negative .
that meant he was immediately killed during the chinese invasion .
and so from the city , i get a very different view , a very different impression , which is that i see negative and positive zones of a city , and i get a very different virtual map of a very real city .
and we can look at that now .
ah , what you can see here , sorry , is another little explanation of what you &apos;re about to see .
of course , this virtual world lives in the walls of our cities , is clear .
and with a kind of flashlight , we can make these virtual worlds visible .
so , i &apos;d like to summarize my talk , in the sense that the properties and the skills that we &apos;ve acquired from the vocational age , and that we &apos;ve gone a little bit wrong in the machine age , that the cyber age that we call cyber age can be reactivated , and that we can actually come back to our roots in this way about complex , technological , new products , not to the future , but actually to us .
thank you .
yes , i &apos;m very happy to be with you .
i &apos;ve just been asked if this sack is a talking sack and mine is going to be speaking .
he &apos;s not going to do that .
his uncle flew into the diaspora with her sacredness that brought people to nepal .
i &apos;m also going to resolve what &apos;s in there .
but i &apos;m just making it a little bit curious .
yes , children are naturally curious or should be curious , designers too .
i &apos;m a creator of house , so of course i &apos;m involved in the theme of curiosity , and how does the curiosity change our thinking again , and why do we maybe lose curiosity and have to repel it and so on .
this is a whole range of things that you &apos;re dealing with next to the actual existence of being a creator .
when professors get curious , they &apos;re often put into this kind of research semester .
and that &apos;s what i &apos;ve had in the last half-year .
a research semester on natural user interface design .
now you &apos;re going to ask yourself , why do all the designers begin to engage in such natural , archaic forms of communication , interaction and so on .
and i &apos;m just holding one of these little devices up because things are supposed to get more and more intuitive , more natural , more user-friendly , and you have to look at what &apos;s actually natural to us humans , which is user-friendly or intuitive .
his mother was locked in as a punishment for -- to be wealthy for the crime .
and in front of the background , i &apos;ve been in the field of natural user interface design , which is the next generation in which human computing is actually dealing with how our tools or how the computer is changing from the computer sukessive to the digital assistant .
so i &apos;ve been looking at , when is it natural or intuitive ?
maybe you have to look back at it again .
why does this happen at all ?
so if we look at the development of our society , represented in a very short way , then we move from the third to the fourth generation of society or social form .
so from modern to computer society .
every society is shaped by a primary medium .
at the beginning of the tribal society through language .
that means that you &apos;ve found yourself by talking to a common language , you &apos;ve been able to communicate with each other , you &apos;ve moved into the same cave , or you &apos;ve moved to other areas , you &apos;ve created cities , or you &apos;ve created villages , and you &apos;ve sort of created tribal society .
but the primary medium was the language , something very natural , something very alive .
he was smuggled into jail at the age of two to hide under her rock summit , because she couldn &apos;t live without him .
you also had to learn , so no small child can talk about nature , but we learn it sukessive and it &apos;s natural .
that was then triggered by the ancient society and the first form of abstraction .
this was a huge outcry at the time , because , of course , you started manipulating the living language in the form of writing , which means what fluid and alive is , i start and i throw it in stone and i manipulate it .
depending on how i throw and when i throw , of course , it &apos;s a very different narrative than if there &apos;s a living kind of thing .
but sukessive then moved this script as a primary medium , got involved .
then came the next generation that we actually live in today primarily .
this is the script that was coined by pressure and print with gutenberg and others .
at the time , it was also a monkey where adel , klerus and others have said , are you really insane when people start reading , they want to talk afterwards , and of course that &apos;s completely fatal .
and now we &apos;re going to get into the next generation , and the exciting thing is , you know , a generational shift is just every few hundred years , and we &apos;re really in this phenomenal phase right now that we &apos;re doing this .
and of course , we &apos;re totally confused because we &apos;re seeing on one side the new media , social media , facebook and so on .
the nurse who did this brave thing was brought into an educational camp .
with total transparency , what the new thinking is , what bangs on old thinking , don &apos;t say that in lasagne horse meat and beef no longer is cattle or other phenomena , which is , i want to pour this and i want to do it .
and these two worlds are banging together , new and old thinking .
the exciting thing about this is , if you look at this , this new society , this computer society , is very diverse from many mechanisms , principles and archaic paradigms from the tribal society .
but now not at the local level , but on a global level .
we &apos;ve understood that the weather is global .
that the theme of ecology is a global issue .
it &apos;s not when i think local ecological here , and the neighbor thinks less ecologically , it doesn &apos;t work anymore .
that is , in the local village , it &apos;s actually become a global village with the same principles , possible , possibly intuitively , but also total transparency .
as you knew back in the village , who has something with whom and when , this is happening today about this expansion of ourselves through these mobile ending devices on a global scale .
whether we know global and aggregate faster and faster and better .
one day , she came out of a armband maos , and for this transition , she had to go into a heavy labor camp for seven years .
just as it used to happen in the village .
in front of the background , i &apos;ve just been looking at this , because what does it mean , what is natural to us , what is it that we may have lost , but what is instinctive for us , so what makes the difference ?
because a lot of the time people come , they can &apos;t make it user-friendly , so that anybody can deal with it .
so you have to deal with it , which means that , and not just change it , that it &apos;s different , but it &apos;s supposed to be better .
and when is , of course , a little intuitive , and how can i , as a creator , influence it and design things so that they &apos;re a user-friendly , so possible , because then they &apos;re fun and they &apos;re easy to use .
you get involved , even during the study , with the subject of perception and perceptual psychology .
and of course , that &apos;s where you start and look and say , okay , i &apos;m just looking inside the inner self .
and what does it actually look like in there ?
so how do we work when we look in there ?
and what does it mean , of course , intuitively and how do our channels work , and how does cognitive processing work work ?
suffering from tibetan can be intolerable , but the dissolving spirit of people is something unforgettable .
because steve jobs once said you need to dig deeper to understand how it works .
so you really have to look in the details , if i want to make something user-friendly or intuitive , which means that at the core .
and you can see that a is our seven senses , most people think we only have five , now it &apos;s even seven recognized , and it certainly comes to the next , eighth sense in the near future , and also as an extension of ourselves .
and to see how we process information , how do we take information ?
just to say , what is information ?
information is every difference that makes a difference .
a lot of people use the word , but they don &apos;t know what it means in detail .
but i have to understand in the core , in the mind , when does information become information , when does data become information , and from information , so that i know how to make things intuitive or , of course , handable afterwards .
and of course , how design affects perception .
we see this here , when i make things , i can confuse them like on the right , where i don &apos;t know what &apos;s salt and pepper , or i can sort of make them intuitive by showing things .
and in the end , we really have a choice . do we want to live in a monochromatic world of monotonies or in a polychromatic world of diversity ?
so much more natural , in a pot , but i kind of see where is salt and pepper in there .
and when i tell someone , give me salt or pepper , they &apos;ll be thinking on the right first time , where is it ?
and the one on the left is just intuitive , and then hopefully , no sugar is in there , giving the salt accordingly .
but also our perception of ourselves , how do it deceive us ?
for example , this perception in context .
the right circle looks bigger than the small one , even though that &apos;s not the case at all , but they &apos;re just the same size , and yet our perception changes depending on what context we put things in .
anyone know what that is ?
come on .
pattern recognition should work .
that &apos;s where it &apos;s more like my glasses .
the ethnosphere is the great legacy of humanity .
margaret mead , who said great anthropologist before she died , is that her greatest fear is that as we move towards a thread , unseen , generic worldview , we would not only see the entire range of human imagination reduced in a concrete way of thinking , but that one day we woke up from a dream , and forgot that there were ever other possibilities .
so it &apos;s n circle .
a second circle already starts to correlate or associate some similarity .
and when i stop putting a halboval on it , all of a sudden we don &apos;t just see one more unit , which is circle , circle and circle , but we see one unit , we don &apos;t see three parts , one circle , one circle , another .
it &apos;s called the shape law , or the shape psychology , which is also affecting us in perception .
it &apos;s important for the designers , they usually have this in the first semester , the great shape laws .
nearby , shaped laws of continuity and so on .
often in the third , it &apos;s been forgotten .
but this is an essential component , if you want to make things intuitively possible .
the next phenomenon , which is also very interesting to see .
sounds like a banal , but it &apos;s really exciting when you get closer to it .
and it &apos;s humbling to think that our species may have existed for maybe 600,000 years .
so we have the front eyes , and now you think we &apos;re looking from the front to the back .
that &apos;s wrong .
you can see from the back to the front .
that is , they prospect an assumption that they see something that they recognize , precedently , circle .
that is , we &apos;re going to protest our vision before we see it , and then we put it back in our sehedron to say , okay .
i &apos;ve got cognitive feedback , you &apos;ve proved what you want to see .
that &apos;s also there , that &apos;s going to come back .
and then it goes back to the front , because the back doesn &apos;t trust the front , and it says , well , look again , and i &apos;m sure whether what you see is what you want to see .
and then it goes back and then it &apos;s actually seen .
so a very , very exciting process of how certain things happen and what kind of millisecond areas these things happen .
the neolithic revolution that brought us agriculture , and at that moment , submitted us to the cult of the seeds , which replaced the poetry of the shaman through the prose of priesthood and created hierarchy , specialization and surplus -- only 10,000 years ago happened .
i don &apos;t know who of you knows this picture .
that &apos;s exactly what i just described .
now , everyone from this pattern is trying to see something .
i don &apos;t know who recognizes something .
anyone see something ?
a dalmatiner , exactly .
once i see that , that &apos;s a dalmatiner in there , you know that .
you &apos;ll never forget it because i &apos;m going to show you where the dalmatiner is .
now you see the dalmatiner .
and further , now you &apos;re always seeing him .
the modern industrial world as we know it is hardly 300 years old .
that is , i &apos;ve actually spoiled you now , that you don &apos;t recognize a pattern in it , but i &apos;ve been conditioning it within a very short period of time to see this dog in this convoluted picture .
and this is the projection of vision , feedback , seeing .
now i know , and i &apos;m going to projief forward that i see the dalmatiner .
i see the dalmatiner .
so , very , very exciting processes , which then , in this one , yes , gray is not , but actually , here in this rosane mass , it &apos;s just right .
anyone know what three seconds are ?
long , yes .
that &apos;s our present .
so , it &apos;s always interesting to know as a designer .
if i know something takes three seconds to , in a way , from the present , to the past , i can bridge very well wait times , in which i always do it by doing somebody at three seconds .
now , this shallow story doesn &apos;t tell me that we have all the answers to the challenges that we face in the coming millennia .
he has to process that as a present .
then it goes into the past , and so i can bridge very elegantly waiting times , for example , on the computer , if i know this phenomenon .
what &apos;s going to take fifty milliseconds ?
yes , milliseconds .
it &apos;s also a very exciting phenomenon .
this is the time when you fall in love .
that means , notice , if you know that now , pay attention to who you &apos;re looking at for a long time , because i don &apos;t take a gun for what can happen .
and six milliseconds , also a very exciting phenomenon .
that &apos;s the time period of most of the perceptions we have .
that is , this first impression is happening at a rapid speed , how we perceive things .
if we ask these myriad world cultures for the meaning of humanity , they answer with 10,000 different voices .
and as we also see things , what we pay attention to , and how we sort of settle ourselves against our environment , so that we can think about it accordingly .
of course , the designers are not just dealing with the subject of perceptions and neural processing , or cognitive sergonomy , but primarily , of course , the subject of the human object relationship .
so how does a human being deal with certain things ?
there are the practical functions , the formalaesthetic aspects or formalaesthetic aspects .
there are signature functions , where i know exactly where i have to grasp .
but there are also symbolic functions , why does anyone spend a little bit of time , where hardly what fits in , so horrendous sums of money , even though it &apos;s not so practical ?
we &apos;re more likely to be on the symbolic level , at the level of meanings that we &apos;re dealing with as designers , of course .
back to my actual theme of natural user interface and the subject , which , of course , is usability .
usability always means , how can i get a quick goal , or how can a user in a certain context , be able to achieve an effective , efficient and satisfactory goal ?
so it &apos;s more like the norm .
and in this song , we &apos;re going to rediscover the possibility of being what we are : people with full consciousness , who are aware of the importance that all people and gardens need to be able to thrive , and there are great moments of optimism .
how can i make something possible user-friendly ?
can i use that directly or i need a handbook or i need to have a corresponding training for it .
and less usable or usable is it .
that i &apos;m just doing this differently and more beautiful doesn &apos;t mean it &apos;s better to handle .
you also have to understand that .
and if you look in part at the software that we just saw , you &apos;ll also understand why ninety-nine percent of our software today is very little intuitive or not based on the i-pad , including the i-pad in many areas or i-phone , even though it &apos;s much more intuitive than classic software .
now , intuitive use has not only been a fundamental economic factor , elementary success factor , if i just want to make technological devices useful to people .
why ?
because usually , through this new kind of usability , the natural user ínterfaces , we &apos;re about five times faster on average on our goal .
you have to imagine that if you do something of the classic softrash , it takes you five hours , and with this new kind of natural software , it only takes an hour .
here &apos;s a photograph i took at the north end of the baffin islands when i went to narwhal hunting with inuits , and this man , olaya , told me a wonderful story about his grandfather .
it doesn &apos;t mean that you &apos;re probably going to be more likely to go home for four hours , but your employer , or anyone , is going to come up with them , how they &apos;re going to do it with the four hours .
but i want to say that , of course , for us , it &apos;s a corresponding increase in performance to do certain things .
so when we go back to software , this is the first command line interfaces , which were very abstract , where it took months to deal with these systems .
and then the next one who &apos;s been working with the nem neural model , or mental model , like the software eergonoma , came up with an idea of something , the metaphor , the metaphor of a desktop , to make the computer usable .
so no longer zeros and ones or cryptic codes , but a metaphor .
that made it a lot more user-friendly , but , of course , it &apos;s much better .
the next generation of graphic user surfaces already works a lot more with behavior .
so , as a creator , i &apos;m much more likely to shape behavior than what it looks like .
this is also a paradigm shift .
all of a sudden , i &apos;m becoming increasingly unimportant for success , just the usability becomes an application .
the canadian government has not always been very good at the inuit , and during the 50 years in the process of establishing our ruling , they &apos;ve been forced to move in settlements .
and if i go one step further into this natural user interfaces , where i &apos;m voice , by language , by touch , by gesture , and not by mouse and cursor , i have to control things even faster and more immediate .
but that also leads me back to the point where , when do things actually get more intuitive ?
when you get more intuitive , and then i have to strap and look at my little friend again , which means , from the point of view of cognition , when is it really intuitive now ?
and that &apos;s always intuitive for us humans when i have to think very little about it .
so apparently , he doesn &apos;t like to think , he wants to think it &apos;s easy to do .
the less i kind of think about it , the more intuitive it is .
and what does that mean for the designer ?
so if we look at the fact that we can transfer existing action models from one to another , for example , the metaphor , then i can use that as a designer .
that means i can translate an intuitive human action model to a software , and make the software much more user-friendly .
now , of course , the question is , what is the most intuitive action scheme of human beings , and i &apos;ve already betrayed it ?
this old man &apos;s grandfather refused .
this is the so-called osit model .
this uses every one of us , and osit is an acronym , and it stands for more oriented , more selective , informed , transacting .
that &apos;s what each of you does all the time , but it makes it unconscious , and it &apos;s kind of intuitive , or partly instinctive .
the model is already exploded in the womb , and it &apos;s interculturally , so it works in the world at young and old , and it &apos;s used all the time , without most of us knowing that this model is there .
osit osit is going to be about 50 to seven thousand times as much as we &apos;re going to be activity , so in sleep , you &apos;ve found that it &apos;s going to be less frequently strained than it is on a day .
i can now orient this mental model of action , select , inform , transmit it to an interaction system .
and through this kind of transmission , much like the metaphor of the desktop , now not a metaphor of a physical object , but a metaphor of a action pattern , an action principle .
and this is on a higher grail of user friendship than the transmission of a classical metaphor , which is the desktop .
and if i translate that now , for example , in which i &apos;m orienting as a supervision , selecting as a choice , informing in the trap , it &apos;s big to me , i can look at it in detail , and yes , transacting , i can throw it somewhere , or send somebody , and so on .
then i can transmit the whole thing .
it &apos;s the symbol of all of what we are and what we are capable of as an amazingly knowledgeable species .
the family that was afraid of his life took him all the weapons and all the tools .
i &apos;m going to try this through an example .
i mean , everybody &apos;s eaten cake .
supervision : now i &apos;m kind of interacting with the object , can zoom out , zoom in .
i &apos;ll get the whole overview , and now i can filter on this and say , just show me all the chocolate things .
and all of a sudden , you have an interface , which is much more intuitive and much more natural .
because i can touch things like the bits , and they come to me , is much more natural than if you can make these things available over hierarchical websites or other mechanisms .
imagination is more important than knowledge , and with that phrase , i &apos;d like to close a and again give a clue , and designers have to think differently to come up with new solutions , and in that sense , thank you very much for your attention and request .
i want to give you a very specific aspect of curiosity .
the first one , when you grow up as a child , as a baby , is that you care about what kind of divorces do you have , right ? and depending on whether your parents have allowed you to play and touch more or less in the pottery , the more , in a way , your curiosity is , of course , tissue .
and the curiosity is not learning .
now you have to know that the inuit is not afraid of the cold . they used it to their advantage .
that &apos;s why all of you who are here and are curious , in fact , people who have a property that you can &apos;t learn .
so i &apos;m going to talk about practically this whole environmental discussion , global decline , 40 years of club of-rome , in quality .
and there &apos;s a central point here .
and it depends on phosphorus .
give pee a chance .
every day , they give plus-scale about two grams of phosphorus , and every day they have to take two grams of phosphorus .
otherwise you can &apos;t have teeth .
you can &apos;t store energy .
you can &apos;t have bones .
we could only glide as an amorphous mollusk through the ocean .
the glides of their slices were originally made out of fish that was wrapped in caribbean skin .
in fact , if we don &apos;t take a phosphorus and give it away .
the amazing thing is that we &apos;re looking at something that would actually be self-understanding , but it &apos;s not that way .
because they &apos;re all talking about energy , but nobody &apos;s talking about the phosphorus problem .
the phosphorus problem is much more critical .
we depend on two countries .
we only have for two years phosphorus , and now , through the phosphorus mining of the world , we &apos;re getting a lot more uranium into the environment than we &apos;re using in all the nuclear plants .
in the last 20 years alone , five thousand tons of uranium have been distributed on our fields in germany .
and that &apos;s what we &apos;re recording .
it makes leukemia in children .
and we think we &apos;d protect the environment if we &apos;re a little less harmful .
the man &apos;s grandfather was not afraid of the arctic night or the storm that was waving .
so , for example , shake the environment , less car .
shake the environment , make less waste .
shake the environment , use less energy .
but that &apos;s not a protection .
that &apos;s as if i said , shake your child , just three times instead of five times .
that &apos;s just a little less destruction .
if we think like this from the weighs to the bathroom , our entire earth will be a cemetery sooner or later .
that &apos;s why you think about the weigh to the weighs .
and the most important thing is to look at the ground , first of all .
in the ground , over six percent of the carbon is stored .
he hatched out , dropped his pants out of seaweed fur and defeated his hand , and when the feces began to freeze , he shaped them into the form of a knife .
at the moment , we &apos;re growing corn and losing between 11 and 30 kilograms of 30 tons per hectare , or on the square meter .
that means we lose about five thousand times more in the ground than we &apos;re reformed .
we can , of course , look at the waste problem .
and everything is packaging or content .
in openness , for example , the house waste is 20 percent of the amount of waste now .
and because we get older , the wind gets bigger .
this is all of you in the pre-wave period .
yes ?
a baby needs about six thousand wind .
we could , of course , reduce that by 10 percent , but what does that do ?
he sprayed saliva on the sides of the fecalian knife , and when it was frozen completely , he shocked a dog with it .
this is balanced in china in a second .
this is completely trivial .
so the question is , how do we deal with these winds ?
here &apos;s one of the proof , by the way , that men are not pigs .
i want to tell you .
because the phosphorus is given to the pigs about the solid ingredients .
the people about the urine .
yeah .
so men can &apos;t be pigs .
because that &apos;s evidence , right ?
he included the dog , and he improvised a dish , took the skeleton of the dog , and improvised a sleek , relaxed another dog , and swore over the ice customs with the fecalian knife on the belt .
traditionally , we think in the environmental discussion , we &apos;re too many in the world .
and if you give the people who if you give it to people , if you say that &apos;s better , you wouldn &apos;t be there , they become refined and hostile .
and so someone like al gore , one of our great heroes , there &apos;s nothing more important than stabilizing the human population .
in israel , you say , if you save a human life , you save the earth .
here it says , the more you kill , the better .
yeah .
the first question is , are we really too many ?
if you look at the ants , the weight of the ants on earth , the ants weigh about four times more than we humans .
i could also take termites , but in the united states , no one likes termites , in such a far way , even though they &apos;re vegetarian .
that means the ants weigh much more than we do .
this is how you can make something out of nothing .
and because they physically work much harder than us , and because they only live three to six months , they &apos;re a little 30-billion people in their weight , in energy consumption .
that means we &apos;re not too many , we &apos;re too stupid , right ?
and where you see how far we &apos;ve gone from what we really wanted to do and could , and how sad we are , that we are at all on earth , you can see that , for example , openness has a program , until 20 , 40 , you want to be climaneutral here , right ?
you can only be climaneutral if you don &apos;t exist , right ?
the only chance .
have you ever seen a climate-neutral tree ?
yes ?
one ?
that means all of our intelligence means that we want to be stupid as trees , right ?
yes ?
and this , in many ways , is a symbol of the resistance of the inuit and all the innate people in the world .
no tree is carbon neutral .
luckily not , yes ?
there &apos;s no overpopulation problem with trees .
there are still six billion trees in the amazon area .
you &apos;ve heard about it a little bit of overpopulation problems of trees ?
that means all of our intelligence means that we want to be stupid as trees .
and where you see , even at something like demeter , the most strict bio-agriculture , it doesn &apos;t allow our own metabolic products to go back .
every year , we lose three million tons of phosphorus that really would have to go back in circles .
and we &apos;re too many .
just about it .
the canadian government gave back the inuit in april 1999 the complete control over an area bigger than california and texas combined .
that means we feel so guilty about the earth that we say , there &apos;s no bio-land , there &apos;s no bioland , there &apos;s no natural establishment system , and as they all mean , that allow our own excrements to go back .
isn &apos;t that sad ?
so we &apos;re too many .
it makes sense to be less harmful in terms of oil consumption .
but where are we useful ?
we &apos;re trying to minimize our ecological footprint , but it &apos;s about having a big footprint that &apos;s useful .
we want to be good for society , we want to be good for the economy , but when it comes to the environment , the highest , not to be there , right ?
nullemissions , yes ?
you can only have nuclear missions if you &apos;re not there .
even if you were to shoot yourself now , you would have emissions .
and just as the biosphere was highly discarded , it happened with the ethnosphere -- only at greater speed .
it &apos;s our new home country , and it &apos;s called nunavut .
so you can &apos;t solve that at all .
we can do it differently .
we can regain our nutrients .
we do agriculture in brazil where we regain the nutrients .
directly , we can get nutrients back in agriculture in this way .
for example , we do this in china where we take the waste from it directly .
in china , a boardroom today is called honeybee , so to speak , right ?
and in our western world , we were always too stupid to bring back our nutrients .
that is , the whole western civilizational story is that the city has always taken over , but never given back to the farmers .
and as a result , the cities had to grow more and more , because the farmers went to the cities , and the cities had to keep getting their nutrients .
it &apos;s an independent area . they control all minerals .
that &apos;s why all the western empires have been expanded until they don &apos;t get the infrastructure done , and then they &apos;re imploded .
yes ?
in china , it was different .
you &apos;ve been able to do a fragile civilization for five thousand years , because you &apos;ve always been able to bring the nutrients back .
even today , if you &apos;re invited to eat in china , you expect to eat that they &apos;re going to stay until you look for the toilet .
because it &apos;s unfriendly to go and take the nutrients .
you &apos;ve invited them to eat , not to the nutrient theft .
that means you can see on the internet how to regain the nutrients .
now , the nice thing about this is , if you do this , so agriculture , produces biogas , on a hectare country with five thousand people in favelas , you can make a farmer about a thousand dollars , and you can wait for the plant to grow chickens and pigs and ducks and vegetables and fish .
and the great thing about this is that the crime rate in the favelas is more than nine percent .
an amazing example , like a nation , a state that can seek and achieve repetition with its people .
so we don &apos;t have to control people , to be very little bad .
we can support them to be good .
this is , of course , high-tech agriculture , but the facilities carry themselves .
the byproduct is clean water .
and they &apos;re designed by the design that a farmer can just manage them .
that means returning the crime rates .
and none of these facilities , we &apos;ve now built over 100 to 50 in the last 20 years , none of these facilities have ever been sabotted .
you could just throw in a liter and then the facility would be ruined over the years .
it doesn &apos;t happen .
that means we don &apos;t have to control people , to be very little bad .
and finally , i think it &apos;s pretty obvious , at least for those of us who have traveled to these distant goals of the earth , to realize that they &apos;re not at all .
we can support them to be good .
that means we need to get phosphorus back .
and by the way , if you want to do something out of it , write down , in germany , the best way to do it is by all the enlightenment facilities in france .
unfortunately , they &apos;re not in the open stream , but maybe they can help the france a little bit .
because the frared facility could best reclaim the phosphorus .
and he has to go back .
we see that phosphorus is really critical .
and we see that it works very well .
we &apos;ve been in holland now for three years .
the dutch government has explained that they will be the first country in the world to reclaim phosphorus .
they &apos;re the countries of someone .
but we need that overall .
you know , there are two countries that control almost seven percent of the world &apos;s phosphorus incidents .
there &apos;s a bunch of orphanages , opec .
these are six twenty-six countries that control 40 percent of the oil supply .
and we &apos;ll be able to replace the oil by other energy carriers .
but you &apos;re not going to replace the phosphorus .
that &apos;s not about making the existing a little less bad , but it &apos;s about making something right .
and most of all , it &apos;s to ask what the right thing is .
that means it &apos;s about efficiency , it &apos;s not about efficiency .
in holland , of course , you understand it easier because in holland , the country is built on flowers .
they represent parts of the human imagination that go back in the past time , and for all of us , the dreams of these children , like the dreams of our own children , become part of the geography of hope .
yes ?
imagine , for example , if your wife is sad , if you &apos;ve annoyed her , and you come with 50 roses .
completely inefficient .
but very , very effectively , yes ?
or take a lip pen .
a woman in germany eats about six comma three kilograms in her life .
there we go .
it &apos;s not a scientific thing to do , because we don &apos;t know how much is being kissed away .
but a lip pen , even in this illumination , i can tell you , is completely inefficient , but really effective , yes ?
one of the things that &apos;s beautiful in life is not efficient .
what we &apos;re trying to do at national geographic eventually is we believe that politicians never achieve anything .
that &apos;s why not resource efficiency , but efficiency .
asking , what &apos;s the right thing to do ?
not to burn the seaweed mud a little bit better , and to deposit it with it , and to lose all the materials in the burn system , but first to ask , how do you make a cycle ?
imagine mozart efficiently .
yes ?
when i invite you to dinner and say , yes , there &apos;s a pill with open taste and a glass of water .
wonderful , huh ?
that &apos;s efficient .
everything that &apos;s beautiful in life is not efficient .
if you fall in love with somebody , efficiently ?
we believe that polemics -- we think polemics is not persuasive , but we believe that storytelling can change the world , and so we &apos;re probably the best institution for storytelling in the world . our website gets 35 million hits every month .
yes ?
that means everything that counts in life is not about saving , avoiding , reducing .
the whole environmental discussion .
we tell people , oh yeah , you don &apos;t have an environmental awareness in the south .
no , throwing away is just the right thing , right ?
at every point where you throw away , from , yes , you recreate life opportunities .
but the wrong things .
if you throw away the wrong things , you have a waste problem .
in how we think of north .
that &apos;s where every footprint is disadvantaged .
156 nations send our television channel .
if you walk , yes , every footprint destroys the ground .
because the ground is going to die down , and the wind and the water is going to wash away the ground .
but if you &apos;re in italy , every footprint means that the water remains in the meadow longer .
so , it &apos;s about creating a big footprint that becomes a wetlands .
not guilt management .
we say sustainability in germany .
yes ?
but if i ask you , how do you do with your wife ?
what do you say ?
sustainable .
our magazines are read by millions .
then i say , heartfelt pity , right ?
that &apos;s just the minimum .
so not saving , eliminating , avoiding .
every waste is nutrient .
and it &apos;s a lust , when you see it in italy , the people in the high bow are throwing out of the car like this .
because , you know , it &apos;s a fun process .
it &apos;s a form of re4 behavior , right ?
you can show , i was there .
but with the right design , there we go .
for example , we &apos;ve developed an ice cream package , which is at room temperature , liquid .
no biologist would claim , for example , that 50 percent or more of all species are about to extinct , because it &apos;s just not true . and yet , this -- the apocalyptic scenarium in the field of biodiversity -- is barely what we know as the most optimistic scenario in the field of cultural diversity .
and we &apos;re taking a series of trips to the ethnosphere where we &apos;re taking our audience to places of such cultural wonders that they &apos;re being blinded by the seen , and hopefully , one after the other , they &apos;re going to embrace the central revelation of anthropology : that this world has deserved to exist in different ways that we can find a life opportunity in a really multicultural pluralistic world where the wisdom of all people can contribute to our common well-being .
they can throw them away where they go and stand .
in two hours , it builds up everywhere .
and it contains seeds of rare plants so that they can throw away by throwing away to biodiversity .
that means we &apos;re useful , not less harmful .
so there are two cycles .
it &apos;s not all to be composable , of course .
a tv set or a washing machine , and they only use it , they don &apos;t use it .
only the things that veil , like shoe soles , like brakes , like cars , they have to be so that they go into biological systems .
the things that are only used go into technical systems .
but today we &apos;re only talking about the biological systems .
thank you .
yes ?
for example , the sneaker , yes ?
very direct advertising , not for the company puma per se , but for helping this company make these products successful .
because we don &apos;t make things free anymore .
yes ?
so , when i invite you to eat and say , this is free of chicken , it doesn &apos;t help you .
no , we find what &apos;s inside .
positive .
so not like detox .
not toxic in it .
what i &apos;m going to show you first , as quickly as possible , is the basic work , a new technology that we &apos;ve given microsoft as part of an adoption just a year ago , which is seadragon , and it &apos;s an environment in which you can either be local or distant with huge amounts of visual data .
it &apos;s all that &apos;s in there that &apos;s useful .
these are the first shoes that you can put the kavalierstart on the pedestrian light and the rubber can go into biological cycles , right ?
all of them are composable .
and when we succeed , of course , we &apos;re succeeding for obesity , for nike , for hennes and mauritz , and for the whole textile industry .
and that &apos;s half the world &apos;s sewage problems that are caused by the textile industry .
that &apos;s why they &apos;re helping , ask people what they &apos;re doing .
hey , puma , are you really serious ?
because they &apos;ve already shifted the board twice .
and i &apos;m not sure they really stay there .
so , help me a little bit .
we see a lot , a lot of gigabytes of digital photographs here , which you can seamlessly and continuously rearrange , in any way .
but there we go .
yeah .
that &apos;s what &apos;s just been represented .
this can be done .
we can do things now that when they break , they can go into biological circles .
technical cycles are the same .
there &apos;s a direct back system for this .
this is the first ecological backpack , actually , to go back into the loop .
again , so in any store , you can get things back .
if you come to that , right ?
and it doesn &apos;t matter how much information we &apos;re looking at , how big these collections are , or how big the images are .
do you remember the wind ?
if it &apos;s currently garbage .
all around the world , these winds are almost .
in the countries where people come to money .
there on the deponia , but also in the landscape , right ?
if we change the plastic , so that it can go into biological systems , if we change the water storage , inside , that you can just go back to cellulosic , then you can plant a baby in israel or in tunisia hundreds of fifty trees .
yes ?
even if you take these winds , you shrink them , you sterilize them , and you take the powder to plant trees .
so the baby is carbon positive for the whole life , from the beginning .
so , we don &apos;t need to be climaneutral , we can be climate positive .
most of you are digital photographs of a camera , but this is , for example , a scan of the library of congress , and it &apos;s in an area of 300 megapixels .
it &apos;s about a kind of behavioral poop print .
yeah , kind of .
yes ?
we can do that .
we can reinvent everything again .
i started an institute on this .
there &apos;s a lot of people working there now , and they can all engage .
there &apos;s an extra group of cradle to cradle , where everyone can join .
so not saving , eliminating , avoiding , reducing , not management of guilt , but smart waste .
does that make you curious ?
it doesn &apos;t make any difference , because the only thing that can constrain the performance of a system like this is the number of pixels on your screen at every moment , and it also has a very flexible architecture .
thank you .
the work of the interpret .
music as a language .
in the description of my talk , it says that as an interpreter , i am a translator , which is the english word .
interprets are translators of written notes in clinical music .
that , as a translator , you don &apos;t just have to translate the text into a different language , but you also have to understand the deeper sense of words and wortzusmenhang in order to make a meaningful translation , everyone who has to do with foreign languages .
already from german to translate to english , it can require more knowledge , because once you &apos;re about poetry or even about poetry .
but it &apos;s very alien to layman , what we musicians do with our music language .
as an interpret of a piece of music , i first have only the written notes .
you think the composer has written into the notes exactly everything he &apos;s thought of .
this is a whole book , an example of non-image data .
in fact , the notes are very vague and inaccurate .
these notes are about as accurate or inaccurate as a verbal , even though very seemingly penile , description of a landscape .
because in this verbal landscape description , the smell of flowers is not smell , the degree of the green is just not to listen to the saddles of the wind , not to feel .
that means that the interpret has to translate these unprecedented notes into another language of notes , which is audible , concrete , nonverbal music .
today i want to give you what i otherwise translate musical , which is interpreting , again , into a verbal language .
so basically , a translation of translation .
that &apos;s why i prefer to do it in german , because if i had to translate it into english again , it would be consistent for me to translate the translation of translation .
so , the music works for me like the spoken language .
the notified notes have the function of the letters of a script .
so it &apos;s not enough to just learn to read grades and press the keys on the piano or the right place on a violin string .
this is bleak house of dickens . every column is a chapter .
because that would be just the letters you &apos;ve learned to paint .
you can only see the meaning of the letters if you can do the language .
so you need music language for the learning process , at least as long as the spoken language .
now , there &apos;s a level , whether you learn it for the use , just passively , or you can speak actively , to the musical mother &apos;s language .
the work of the interpret begins very much like a theater director .
after you first chose to play a piece , because you &apos;re excited about it , you &apos;re first researching the backgrounds of the composition .
you collect information about the play in the secondary literature .
you read in the letters , the journals , the notes , or the words , the composers themselves .
you study the works that he composed before and after .
you do comparison .
to prove that it &apos;s really a text and not a picture , we can do something like this to really show that this is a real representation of texting and not a picture .
the reasons to write it .
how and what did he feel ?
what were its circumstances of life , like society and politics ?
i &apos;m interested in all of this .
you think in that time by looking at contemporary images , for example , or reading literature .
but over time , you also have an interpret of rich knowledge to the composer you play more and more often , and it makes you easier to think in and feel .
the composer is becoming more and more the friend that you live with .
his cause to write the piece becomes more and more of my personal cause to play it .
now , because the notes represent everything but an accurate record of the composer , but only a framework , i now apply this framework to replenish it with meaning and meaning .
i then say , in my own words , what could be written between this framework .
and the key indicator for this is extinction of languages .
maybe this is an artificial way of reading an e-book .
i play a game that explains what these sounds might have .
now for me and for the composer at the time and what you might mean to him today .
every tone , every phrase makes sense of it , because i feel it myself , because it &apos;s coming out of my own right now .
it has to be coherent for me in this room and now , otherwise i can &apos;t convince my audience that this is my cause .
it &apos;s a very happy concert over and over again , if i &apos;m allowed to have the experience , the piece that i &apos;ve been working in advance for so long , as to experience new .
how to experience a happy new day over and over again , despite the same rituals of life , getting up , breakfast , going to work , i do the same thing over and over again .
i got older again a day , changing seasons , my pulse slows down at night than in the morning , in a concert hall , it takes longer for the sound to come back than at home .
i see the breathing of the audience , consciously or unconsciously .
all of this affects me and all of this also affects my experience with the composition .
and what &apos;s wonderful is , if i &apos;m standing on stage with a duo partner , and we have the same wavelength .
i wouldn &apos;t recommend it .
then the same thing happens in a good , appropriate conversation .
you put a new idea in there , and at the same time it &apos;s answered with a reaction .
it &apos;s exciting , because then things that we haven &apos;t tried and we can &apos;t sample .
it &apos;s a lot of fun to make music in this way , and then as the audience , they &apos;ve experienced how music communicates alive .
so each concert is a different concert .
i &apos;m never going to play like that moment .
i can &apos;t play the way i do in 20 years today .
that &apos;s where i &apos;m going to have more life experience than today , and that &apos;s why i &apos;m going to have a lot more color nuances on my palette of music than today .
sure , i &apos;m going to throw out some pots of paint , but get some new ones .
have a nice example of that .
this is a more realistic case . this is a copy of the guardian .
it was on a piano class for music students at my beloved old teacher , professor jürgen ude , a famous beethoven specialist , concert pianist and longtime professor of music college here in stuttgart .
unfortunately , i was too young so much so he had emerged when i finally started studying .
but i was very fortunate to meet him very early , at age three , at three , and so i was on his classes at my school age .
i was 17 when i went back to one of his courses , and i played the last of the four bars of chopin , a late work .
he asked me what was the introduction of this ballad for me .
this is such a contracted part .
and in my youth , i said , expectation .
and he was cheating , and he was like , &quot; you know ? &quot;
that has to be the difference in aging .
because for me , it means memory .
every big picture is the beginning of a section .
he was already over six .
well , with seventh , you have dreams , but you don &apos;t have significant memories .
i play the play every few years , and it has changed for me , even though not a single note has changed .
every time it &apos;s exciting , because i keep reading something new .
an example of this from a very different area . monet painted the seerosis once .
it &apos;s always the same garden , but at different times of day , in different light .
he translated the sailors in a different way , as he saw them , as they were working on him at that moment .
his personal impressions of the sailors .
the x-time interpretation of a piece is comparable to this .
meanwhile , i &apos;m older than chopin with two and a half years old when he wrote the piece .
and that really gives you the pleasure and the good experience of reading a real paper copy of a magazine or a newspaper , which is kind of a medium of several orders of magnitude .
he only lived for three years .
and it &apos;s important for me to keep looking into the notes , even though i mean i can memorize them .
to keep the twin , right with the composer .
because the notes are the only connection directly to him .
especially when he died , he died .
now , how do you start talking about the language of music ?
i said yes , it takes about as long as the spoken language .
often the music class is that you learn how to read the notes .
you &apos;re basically learning to read first before you just talk one word .
you learn to find the notes on the instrument .
we also did something at the corner of this particular issue of the guardian .
then when all the fingers are moving in time and right as it is in the notes , sound comes out that sounds like music together .
if that happens freely , the student gets the next hard piece .
there &apos;s very little talk about interpretation in the early class .
well , there &apos;s a presto on the front , which is a quick piece .
lento , slowly .
and loud and quiet signs , f and b , etc .
most of you know that .
but even if you translate those attacks , it still remains just a little bit technical .
and still , it &apos;s not an interpretation .
i wonder .
we &apos;ve designed a false ad with very high resolution , which is much higher than a regular display , and we &apos;ve added additional content .
i wonder that you often forget something very fundamental .
that , in order to make music on the instrument , it should be your musical doing and feeling should be there before .
that is singing .
a child who didn &apos;t learn to sing , because the parents didn &apos;t pretend , he won &apos;t do it by himself .
it &apos;s like speaking .
it &apos;s necessary to have its own experiences and ideas of music , and then to get it to another possibility , which is to sound about an instrument , to sound .
people who have never been singing have never felt instantly with their own body , as it is to form a sound .
designing a phrase with his own breath .
because the music instrument is the extension of our body .
our vocal chords to sing , our hands and feet to dance .
if you want to see the functions of this car , you can see them here .
so the hammer heads in the piano are the sequel of my fingers .
the melody comes from the healthy and the rhythm from dance .
the constant coverage today with music is not promoting .
you don &apos;t need to make music yourself when it gets boring to you .
no longer need to whistle or sing a love .
each of your own music is made if you &apos;re constantly summed from the outside with music .
sure , there are some of you who say , yes , but what do you do when i can &apos;t sing ?
the question i ask , can you sing , a , because you think you can &apos;t sing ?
or b , because they didn &apos;t learn to sing ?
both of them , it &apos;s not too late to start trying to figure out if they can &apos;t , or learn how to use these little muscles that make the vocal chords right .
or other models , or even technical specifications .
because you can train that .
or c , because they &apos;ve been told that they &apos;re undeaf .
and i ask , how skilled was this diagnosis ?
did you get a second or third opinion , as they say today beautifully ?
or d , you don &apos;t like music , so you want to have nix to do with it .
but what i would regret , because music is a beautiful , communicative thing .
but maybe you can even reverse them .
well , you see , in all cases , no one has to be an unseen candidate .
but please don &apos;t say , i don &apos;t understand anything about classical music .
i can &apos;t tell if it &apos;s good or bad .
and this really captures these ideas to create these constraints for the available place on the screen .
i say that , but i &apos;m sure you can tell if you like it or not .
because i don &apos;t think somebody says it , i don &apos;t know if it tastes to me because i can &apos;t cook .
so , they don &apos;t give up on food , just because they can &apos;t cook .
so you don &apos;t have to get rid of classical music , because you don &apos;t play an instrument .
listen consciously and say whether it tastes to you or not .
whether the music is too peppered or too sweet to you .
tell me what you feel .
over time , you also get claims and you want to have a little more spices there , or even taste fine differences .
now , why do i demand from my audience that it &apos;s also actively listening ?
because the music is a language and a language is there to communicate .
when each of you was born in this room , 6,000 languages were spoken on earth .
we hope that this doesn &apos;t mean pop-ups and other nonsense anymore -- it shouldn &apos;t be necessary .
a piece of art that you never look at has no power to work .
the food that was cooked by a chef , or a chef , has to be eaten and not just looked at or exchange recipes .
so please listen when a music is played .
it &apos;s not just a nice soundscape .
if in an environment where the adults are actively making music , or at least listening to music , a child is growing up , it &apos;s easy for a music teacher to ask , what color is your flower ?
can you play them in blue now ?
and the child is playing , after a memorial break , instead of a red flower , now a blue flower .
and this sounds very different than before .
that was the very first beginning of a musical expression .
so the first step to an interpretation .
of course , mapping is one of the really obvious applications for a technology like this .
and what happens when you play a piece today that was originally written a hundred , two hundred or three hundred years ago ?
meanwhile , the instruments have been evolving .
there was no piano right now as an instrument .
it was just not invented yet .
i think the stream would have been thrilled if he had the sound possibilities of the modern piano today .
i can now get the noises that the stream has had on the modern wing to sound , which a barocky cembalo can &apos;t do .
you also know from beethoven that he heard more than he had become deaf .
today , a modern orchestra is able to play everything that an orchestra at the time has rejected as unsustainable .
so the composers rely on us interprets that reinvent the pieces .
so you become audible , which you &apos;ve only imagined in the mind .
and i really don &apos;t want to spend a lot of time here , except to say that we &apos;re going to contribute to this area as well .
and also , what you would think of today in the mind .
or what i &apos;m looking at today , because what you might have thought .
thank you .
you know what &apos;s tired of ?
have you ever been envy ?
and how did that feel ?
shredded .
i have a friend who drives a passerati .
and when i get there , with my little v piesel and i get it wrong , that feeling comes up .
i &apos;m shooting through my head .
but these are all the streets in the united states .
i say , ulf , what do you need so big a car ?
i mean , that loses half of his value in the first year .
and at all , you work much less than me .
why do i have to afford a little car like this ?
and then i realize immediately , that &apos;s unfair .
it &apos;s against justice .
and as i say the word justice , that unpleasant feeling is gone .
our organism has invented a great way to make such uncomfortable feelings as envy to just disappear .
you can also try this in words like revenge or winning or something like that .
i want to explain to you about this mechanism today , or something that you &apos;re probably unaware of .
overwhelmed on the top of nasa &apos;s drilling picture .
the mechanism comes from the lie .
but don &apos;t think of the lie as you may have heard when people say no one has the intention to build a wall .
and then rocks open so that he can give you a view .
on a lie like this , you see that the liar itself doesn &apos;t believe what it says .
it &apos;s very easy to test that it &apos;s very different in mind .
he &apos;s just deceiving you and not himself .
no , the lie i &apos;m talking about , it has to do with fooling itself .
they need this lie to sustain a lie of life to sustain self-deception .
they can make them less easy , yes , review or even fall .
they need time .
let &apos;s get something else out now .
this time , an anecdote that you may know .
the spanish painter pablo picasso once portrayed a woman .
this woman then complained that the portrait wouldn &apos;t look like her .
picasso says , wait a minute .
they &apos;re getting more and more similar .
at this point , and when you laugh , you can see how important this lie is and how much time you need to experience something that artists can tell us very well .
because artists have a disrupted relationship with lying .
the artist gives you something , and especially this lady , which she doesn &apos;t see when she just looks in the mirror .
the artist is sharing with you in such a portrait something that you &apos;re going to be familiar with when you look at this piece of art over and over again .
then this unpleasant feeling disappears , because it couldn &apos;t look like you , and it gets more and more similar to you .
this is actually live on the internet now . you can check it .
here you have this mechanism where we can use the lie as a great invention for stabilizing our circumstances .
and not only in art , but in the folk , in the mythology , it comes back up in stories .
you may know this idea of the lady who looked in the mirror every morning and asked him , who is the most beautiful thing in the country ?
one day , this mirror says , yes , there &apos;s a more beautiful one .
behind the seven mountains and so on .
and you also know how much hostility is coming out of this real emergence , even the mirror can &apos;t lie , comes out of that real origin .
but we should just be familiar with the fact that you can &apos;t tell a woman that there &apos;s a more beautiful somewhere else .
here it is necessary to restore what we understand under politically correctness .
we need this lie at this point that sustains us deception without even being able to live .
we have not only in art , in the folk poetry , but also in science , such great lies .
this is a project called photosynth that really connects two different technologies together .
and there &apos;s this story about the woman of the bischof of worchester .
she heard about this book by charles darwin , the origin of species and the descent of man .
that the human being should come from the monkey and , yes , there would be at least a common ancestor between humans and monkeys .
and then she ran up to her husband and said , well , that &apos;s probably not true what charles is writing .
the human being is supposed to come from the monkey or have a common ancestor .
no , no , it can &apos;t .
and if it &apos;s true , we have to prevent people from getting knowledge of it .
why do we have to prevent people from getting knowledge from being true ?
because without that livelihood , we can &apos;t live .
because we have this self-deception , this feeling of being great , descending from the highest creatures , not from such a natural level , of something as unpredictable as an organism that still exists , comparable to a stone , and whatever , that &apos;s unsustainable to us .
one is seadragon , and the other one is a very good research on computer vision , which is from noah snavely , a university student at washington , under the counseling of steve seitz at uw .
so , we can &apos;t do these things at all .
we have to prevent people from getting knowledge from things , especially when they &apos;re true .
so you can see how slow this mechanism is going to resolve and what the traces that it &apos;s leaving , that it &apos;s going to lead to something other than this great picture of ourselves , i want to give you another story .
a particularly beautiful story , i mean .
my wife told me .
she came one day from school , she &apos;s a teacher , and she told me about a student .
an autistic student .
she likes him in particular because he has a tendency to sincere .
and she asked him , what are your hobbies ?
and he says , well , i &apos;m in the fire department .
and rick szeliski was done by microsoft research , a very good collaboration .
and because i &apos;m in the fire department , i &apos;m interested in pyrotechnical things .
yes , you feel it when you &apos;re healer in this place . there &apos;s something wrong .
i told my wife , whenever a human being in a moral judgment uses the word , we should try to replace it with the word .
do that once , and then you learn the sentence .
even though i &apos;m in the fire department , i &apos;m interested in pyrotechnical things .
you feel that that &apos;s the real truth behind the arrival .
this is a little bub that doesn &apos;t care about firemen .
he &apos;s interested in firemen .
but there are no clubs that we can look around , where you learn how to make fire .
there &apos;s only the second best , the fire department .
now a language is not just the sum of the vocabulary or a series of grammar birds .
so this is live on the internet . it &apos;s driven by seadragon .
there he is signing up .
and overwhelmingly , you don &apos;t say to your teacher that you like to put a brick somewhere , and you &apos;re delighted when the fire comes up afterwards .
no , it just looks much better when we show that we &apos;re in charge of eliminating the dangers that others are creating when they &apos;re laying fire .
here you have this little mechanism .
this evidence of the fact that in the interior of the bub , he knew that he was actually related to the fire , but that he can &apos;t say that loud .
here you have this censor between the unconscious and the conscious one that jumps right away , without you can do something about it , and the things that you know that you look very different , designed to make you sound much better for you and others .
and that &apos;s just how those words that we use over and over again in the language of the politically correct speech .
in fact , we know that something else is the case .
but we know that when we say that , social relations are very sensitive .
we can &apos;t just do that .
you can see this when we create these kinds of views where we can go through through images and make this experience of multiple resolution .
it &apos;s impossible to present things like this in a society that &apos;s supposed to work .
so i want to show you what we found in my institute .
after what logic this deception , this self-deception , the willingness , a different reality than the one that we actually know in the unconscious sense that it &apos;s valid to spread outside .
i want to give you two , maybe three examples of this .
the first example requires what many of you know and some of you estimate , very few of you don &apos;t need at all .
i mean the soul .
what is the soul ?
the soul is such a spiritual thing , says about leibniz .
it &apos;s something that &apos;s not stopp material , material nature .
and if you have people in front of you who are convinced that they have a soul , or you can also say , who believe that they &apos;ve been brought from the soul to life , then they think of it as if the soul is such a mental framework about them , not from matter , they &apos;re just from meat and blood , something stone , to say , to the earth , delicate , devastatable , unimportant , yes .
but the spatial order of the images is actually important here .
and from this soul , you think that somehow in this cloudy nature , in this funny nature , anima is in latin , the air thylacine .
and if that air tune then poisons about humans , it &apos;s filled with dignity , with spirit , with nature that can only live , yes with soul .
and then he can walk away .
that &apos;s the idea of how the soul works .
so let &apos;s get it from the outside to the human .
so we should perceive them as something that is necessarily supposed to be present for our lives .
and if you have this premise in your mind , you understand the logic with which we experience this happiness to improve our world through a lie .
because now you can apply a three-sentence .
three phrases , you still know from school .
now this is a three-sentence that describes a logic to us .
the computer vision algorithms have stuck these images together so that they &apos;re the real room , where these images that were all made near the grassi lakes in the canadian rockies , and you can see here elements of stabilized slides or panoramic imaging , and these things were all spatially related to each other .
this is the most difficult part of my talk , by the way .
here you need some logic , but also the willingness to lie .
and that is to lie like this , that you can just get this logic wrong .
in this three-sentence , there are three sentences .
the first sentence is , claim that there is no soul .
so the second sentence is , if clarity is right , it doesn &apos;t have a soul .
now there &apos;s a third sentence .
i &apos;ve highlighted it in particular here .
a third sentence that immediately appears in people who have a strong feeling for a soul .
they say , who has no soul , he &apos;s dead , and he can &apos;t say anything .
i don &apos;t know if i have time to show you other environments .
and here you feel it already .
here comes this logic in this , yes , in this deceptive talk .
you see it immediately .
the first two sentences , they &apos;re logically correct .
because i can say anything .
the logic doesn &apos;t make any statement about reality .
i can say , the channel is a man .
and if i &apos;m right , the channel is a man .
if i &apos;m not right , the channel is not a man .
the logic doesn &apos;t make a point about what &apos;s going on .
there are those who are much more spatial .
i can say anything .
but the key thing is , if i &apos;m right , it &apos;s true .
so if clarity says , there &apos;s no soul .
secondly , if he &apos;s right , he doesn &apos;t have a soul .
these things are logically correct .
and now our deceiving consciousness feels immediately , you can make something out of it .
there &apos;s a third sentence that has nothing to do with the first two sentences , and it pretends to be the opposite of the first sentence already proven and presumably .
because , in fact , we would have to prove whether or not the soul is there .
but with this logic , which is simply using two sentences to be logically correct , and hanging a third sentence that looks like it had something to do with it , so we can save our livelihood .
so , we pretend that it &apos;s actually impossible without being able to live a soul .
i &apos;d like to show you just one of the original data sets of noah , and this is from an early prototype of photosynth that we &apos;ve been working on in the summer to show you what i think is really the punch behind this technology , which is photosynth technology , and this is not necessarily so obvious if you look at the environments that we have on the website .
and we &apos;re very happy about this .
we can continue these things in different examples .
for example , in the present day , we have a very modern example that keeps filling the newspapers .
so you have to think of another philosophical issue , a permanent burner from philosophy .
that has to do with us going back to the fourteenth century .
there was a scholar called johannes buridanus , and after that , the buridanian esel is named .
the buridanian esel is an esel made out of pure nature .
it doesn &apos;t have that soul .
this is a natural thing .
and if you place the exact same in the middle between two equal haves , he harbors .
we had to worry about the lawyers and so on .
because he doesn &apos;t know what haystack to go to first .
so he &apos;s right in the middle .
that &apos;s how natural things are introduced .
same forces with opposing signs of the show dissolve each other .
there &apos;s nothing going on at all .
it &apos;s only when you take another example , so if you immediately make a haystack bigger , it doesn &apos;t need a reason , and it doesn &apos;t need anything .
it automatically runs to the right thought .
so if you have this idea that you &apos;re kind of driven in nature , determined by the larger pile that attracts you immediately , you also have to feel that there must be a free will .
and if we &apos;re already here in frankfurt at the main , i remember the max planck institute for brain research .
there &apos;s a scholar called wolf singer , and it &apos;s sometimes said , wolf singer , there &apos;s no freedom of will .
this is a reconstruction of the cathedame cathedame , who was only in the computer with images of flickr . just give the notre lady in flickr , and you &apos;ll get images of men in t-shirts and on the university sites and so on . each of these orange cone represents a picture that was discovered as a listener to this model .
now we can make the second sentence again , and we can say , if wolf singer is right , he has no freedom of will .
these sentences are absolutely logical and correct .
and what we can now read in the daily newspaper almost every day , that &apos;s what you find in that third sentence .
it looks something like who has no freedom of will , can &apos;t be held for his actions and claims to be responsible , and therefore it &apos;s unsustainable .
again , you have it again .
in fact , you &apos;d have to prove that there is something like freedom of will .
but the logic of deception allows us to pretend that the first sentence of the beginning is wrong , as if , of course , you have to take the opposite without proof .
and now you can just , if you want to do anything yourself , if you want to test anything yourself , and especially if you want to make people happy , practice this courage to lie .
practice this , for example , once you meet a human being that you can tell , there are no predictors .
and please don &apos;t use the german word for prediction , which is prophet .
so these are all flickr images , and they &apos;re all in spatial ways with each other .
you can &apos;t call that , that would be a little bit politically incorrect .
you say , there are no predictors .
immediately , they will experience one that there are , of course , predictors like this , you can &apos;t prove that .
and they have a problem .
because while you &apos;re busy making the point that you can &apos;t prove that there are no predictors , the man is very happy .
he &apos;s very happy about it because he deceived it .
because he put them on a stain where he doesn &apos;t stop himself .
because actually , this person is not interested in evidence at all .
he &apos;s just interested in keeping himself free from the need to prove that there are predictors .
so , in the kind of shifting of evidence , you &apos;re experiencing the brilliance of the lie .
one language is the expression of the human mind .
and we can navigate in this very simple way .
and once again , if you have such a possibility to feel that three-sentence in other people , you do , because you will make others happy if you don &apos;t remind them of your own lies that way .
thank you for your attention .
yes , good afternoon .
i allowed myself to ask lilly if i could mention them .
she &apos;s one of the organizers here from this great event , and she asked me if i wanted to give a talk and give my idea .
i have to say , you got it , it was hard for me to start talking about my idea .
and i might like to introduce my island project to you that i &apos;m trying to introduce you to .
but it &apos;s , of course , the sum of a lot of ideas .
i &apos;m probably part of it , the two nice girls are still there , and i &apos;m probably one of the generation that &apos;s made this bad green image , because i &apos;ve started studying ninety-five hundred nine-year-old machine construction in karlsruh , technical college , which is , i think , kit .
and then i went to berlin in the middle of the eighty years , because i wanted to make renewables , and that didn &apos;t give me a carllage .
you know , i &apos;ve never believed i &apos;m going to end up working at microsoft .
there was the core research facility called leopoldshafen .
that was called all the kfa , which was the jewish kfa .
they &apos;re called project carriers today .
because a good engineer either built great cars or nuclear power plants .
but this is kind of a doofes like solar pendulum that kind of gets a hundred watts out of the square meter , which was a toy .
and in berlin , there was a crazy engineering collective .
i &apos;m grateful to the premium cola person that he rehabilitated the word again , because after the fall of the wall , you couldn &apos;t use the word anymore , because everything left was bad .
however , it wasn &apos;t like that in the aaddicted years .
it was just that there were self-administered alternatives , and one of them was sitting in cross-country in the courtyard where they thought the evil was .
it was a place of terrorism , but it was called the water electronics , and it made wind and sunenergy , and i started in the middle of the &apos; 80s .
i &apos;m very grateful for the reception here .
and yes , a lot of what i &apos;ve been told today is very touching me , because many , many beautiful expressions were in the process that i &apos;ve lived through .
i &apos;ve been working in the collective for 11 years , which was grassroots democratic .
we were 20 people .
when a no said no , this was the vetoprinzip , and this completely crashed you , and i &apos;ve been struggling for 10 years to doubling whether i was going to take my great engineering study and maybe really waste it to a ghastly thing , because all my father &apos;s colleagues have always spoken to him , you &apos;ve thrown out the money to the window for your child .
it &apos;s about dirt .
and it was really , really bitter , and then you get into this kind of phase , and it just showed up a picture , where i asked myself , after 10 years , a thousand d marks were that , at the time , basic wage , unemployment in the collective , of course , if that really should be so great .
and i got it all the way up to six and then we got together with friends to become the co-founder of the company solon , who then became one of the largest cell manufacturers in the world with spin-off q-cells .
a huge success story , but again , we have the problem again of a growing company , and we then have two thousand , a small group , decided that we &apos;re going to start and go back and dedicate to the next issue of the future , and that is , i think , what we think , is the same crazy thing again , and that starts again with people saying , what &apos;s the hop , that &apos;s not going to go , we &apos;re talking about stores .
and i brought you a project that i want to introduce you to .
and the title of the talk was , yes , a hundred percent renewable .
i suspect you can see that these are a lot of different kinds of cameras : everything is about to go from the cell phone camera to professional slrs , a pretty large number of you that have all been assembled in this environment .
and we just started asking a relatively simple crazy story , where could you use a memory of purpose today ?
on this island , this is the island of graciosa on the azors .
yes , that &apos;s the data .
there are four and a half thousand people .
they have a fifteen percent renewable energy today .
and the question is , why don &apos;t they have more ?
it just doesn &apos;t work technologically .
when they grow more wind , the system begins to fail .
i always tell the politicians that when they &apos;re in berlin adlershard , they &apos;re in our facility .
they always say , why ?
and if possible , i &apos;ll find some of the strange ones .
we already have 20 percent in germany .
it can &apos;t be a problem .
but it &apos;s not true , we have seven percent in europe , and our network is physically the european .
if we had 20 percent in europe , we would have the same problems that people have on this island .
the question was simple , calculated that was two thousand in 2006 , the first contacts started with the island , but just calculate .
how big a battery would you actually have to be to have an island like this in 20 , 30 , 40 , 50 , maybe even seventy percent renewable .
and yes , i &apos;m going to go on another slide .
the conventional system looks like this all over the world .
by the way , about a hundred gigawatts of electricity are added to the same base in the world .
that &apos;s the equivalent of a hundred nuclear power plants , because it &apos;s all over the place very quickly .
many of them are covered by faces and so on .
the world &apos;s energy starvation is being deleted with this , because you don &apos;t need permission .
you can do that quickly .
you put a box like this .
and then it usually looks like this .
in the course of three of these , two are always waited .
yes , that &apos;s what one looks like down there is the load .
we also got very accurate data .
and the wind plant , or the solar system , or whatever it is , is usually a back-up system , or a system that can only feed in small amounts here .
our goal was to say , okay .
the one is going to be back-up , and the wind , the sun , is going to serve the load so that they can map the larger percentage .
somewhere here is a series of photographs -- here they are .
and if you want to go over 20 , 30 percent renewables , so energy per year , not the power at the moment , you have to turn the one off .
that means , at that moment , you have to make sure that renewables can sort of take over the whole net .
of course , you can only do that if you &apos;re manned in some way here .
no one in the world has ever done that .
this is a little style , so you can also serve your rasier in the car over a little change judge .
people always ask me , what do you actually do research in adlershard ?
this is already going on .
but if you want to put together several of these intersections , and they want to build a network , it &apos;s going to be extremely complicated .
and our goal was , we wanted to get to seventy to ninety percent renewable , and then there &apos;s the rest , the last 10 , 20 percent renewables , which is going to be very , very expensive , and that &apos;s not going to work , either , to make that out of batteries .
that &apos;s certainly going to be an energy carrier , which then , hydrogen , methane , power to gas , you know , or sh , it &apos;s going to be .
this is actually a poster of notre dame who was properly recorded .
you have to go to a seasonal memory and do winter summer , and not just day night .
we just wanted to know , what about a normal , stink electrochemical battery ?
how far do you get ?
and then we did a whole bunch of simulations .
and wind and sun simulated , and came to the conclusion , a very exciting conclusion that you &apos;re facing the conventional system , which , after 20 years , takes a mid-stream rice of about 50 cents a kilowatt-hour , about 40 cents a cent .
these were the very first calculations six years ago .
and then we said , okay .
well , if it &apos;s great , then we have a business model .
we &apos;re cheaper than the same system when the same price goes up five percent a year .
and then we started negotiating with the insulanders .
we can move from the poster to the physical view of this environment .
what would have to be done ?
i negotiated with investors , i looked for new social shepherds .
we were only five people at the time to rebuild a society .
and here &apos;s the representation again .
the brown is kind of the conventional system , the green is our system .
that our system also has a price increase , because we &apos;re doing 20 percent of this with this , and we &apos;re not going to go through prices on the other things .
and the power-utility , which meant the electricity company on the island , has meant that we love that .
we also want to support , but we don &apos;t believe you can solve the technical problem .
and so we decided to build a hall in berlin , where we can sort of map the electrical ratios of the island at scale one in three very precisely .
that is , we first looked for finding the largest battery in the world .
the point here is that we can do things with the social environment . it &apos;s now collected data from all -- from the entire collective memory of what , visually , the earth looks like -- and everything is connected .
here it is .
it comes from asia , naturally , in the case of japan .
and funny , in the &apos; 70s , she was developed at bbc mannheim , today abb , and was then licensed to the japanese .
you can see , it &apos;s a very , very large battery .
it has a megawatt power , and it can get this performance for six hours , and that &apos;s the battery that we kind of got out in simulation .
and then they set them up .
we also have one of these same aggregate at the same size that it &apos;s standing there , put it in the hall , to actually simulate the full dynamic behavior of this network , so in the hall , it looks like this now , there &apos;s the one on the back , here &apos;s the big battery , here &apos;s all the requests that we simulate the net .
over here , we simulate the whole transmission system , the miles physics of cables , to sort of map the vibrational behavior on the net .
and here you can see the whole thing again .
we can also turn two hundred kilowatts of photovoltaics on the web .
and of course , we all share the same adaptations .
it &apos;s a means in which the soul of a particular culture finds access to the material world .
all these photographs are connected , and there &apos;s something bigger than the sum of the parts .
here we see this again , again , this one , again , the whole , single aggregate .
and what we &apos;ve done since the last two thousandth nine is we &apos;ve finished , until today , about two thousand , almost everything that was here between the single system of electronics , to develop software , we &apos;ve done it .
so we &apos;re not a battery manufacturer , but we define ourselves as a company that &apos;s only between the topic of battery and the topic of the web and everything in between .
you have to communicate to the battery , of course , you have to be able to communicate to the web , and that &apos;s very complicated .
the nice thing is that , in this island , you can basically take everything away from the problems that we &apos;re going to get if we &apos;re going to increase our percentage of renewables .
so this whole discussion of how to move back and forth at the moment , energy change , how to go , on the island , we have , for example , five to 30 percent accurate energy , so we &apos;re tiring the wind and the sun .
natural light then offers smart-grid .
so smart-grid , a huge topic everywhere .
we can start to integrate electromobility on the island , ask around , because you can manage the burden .
that is , if you &apos;re seven percent renewable , you &apos;re not going to be able to do that without memory .
you get a model that comes from all over the earth .
you can go through the n smart-grid , you can build the nets , yes , you should definitely do that , hear the percentage , but you will never be able to completely eliminate the memory .
and that &apos;s the message , you know , a little bit .
that &apos;s why a lot of people come and look at this , because you can see what problems you get .
when we turn off the diesel , you don &apos;t have that rotating mass that causes a certain amount of inertia on the net .
and our european network is basically just a loud rotating mass of big power plants , where the wave is always rotating around europe .
we look in this net , we see the 50 hertz , and if it turns ninety-nine comma hertz , we &apos;ll catch some valves , then we &apos;ll go back up a little bit of a merry steam , we &apos;ll come back up again .
this is the system .
and of course , this is incredible work .
if you tear that down somewhere , it takes a while .
the spinning reserve has at least 10 seconds to keep the net stable .
think of this as the sequel of the work of stephen lawlers on virtual earth .
and in time , they can react differently .
if you don &apos;t have that anymore , that rotating mass , you have to replace that with performance electronics and electrochemistry .
and we can turn this big battery out two milliseconds .
and you can see that there are enormous speeds of speed .
and the message is now , we have to rely on these rotating masses , if we &apos;re sort of 20 , 20 percent , 20 percent , 20 , 20 , 30 , 30 percent , and so on , if we want to get there .
then we have to degrade our must-run capacity on the net .
must-run is simply , the power plant is running along to keep the frequency .
yes , it &apos;s a huge debate right now , growing the coal plants , because we don &apos;t otherwise , or gasturbines , because it doesn &apos;t work .
and we &apos;re just trying to make it clear that you can degrade the capacity , the must-run capabilities , by also putting electrochemical stores on the net .
and luckily , there are now a lot of studies .
and this is something that grows through the complexity that people use with , and the benefit of the user is getting bigger and bigger with the application .
and at that point , people will always come and look at our test stand on , sort of , our island test .
and yes , the discussion is always about the question of how far can you take a piece of the far future ?
and many discussions that i &apos;ve had in the last six years have been similar to the discussion that i &apos;ve had in the last 30 years about photovoltaics .
you know , if you don &apos;t , you know , it &apos;s a wax , it &apos;s a child &apos;s toy , we &apos;ve calculated everything , it never calculates .
we have 30 gigawatts of photovoltaics in germany today .
this is preconceived .
and i just assume that in the next 30 years , we &apos;re going to have the same capacity of electrochemical stores around the world .
simple , that &apos;s how it &apos;s going to come .
there &apos;s going to be a lot of resistance and arguments .
the nice thing is that i &apos;ve kind of experienced in the last two years , that the scientists are putting themselves on my side .
their own photos are signed up with metadata that another person has given .
we &apos;ve now got over 10 million funding projects to climb 10 megawatts of battery to the german net .
this is going to happen in the next april .
so , from that point , you also realize that there &apos;s a change there , and only from that defense to yes , to the idea that a hundred percent renewable thing is true .
and if you have a hundred percent renewable , it &apos;s like an autarke system .
so far in discussions , these insulanders , they make autark , they have their own little web , that has nothing to do with our connection .
the question is very simple , if you &apos;re totally independent of any fossil or uranium energy supply that &apos;s being drilled out anywhere in the world and taken to you , you &apos;re an island .
then they only use what &apos;s there on the sun and the wind where they live .
and that &apos;s a little bit of our vision of reasonable energy supply , and i &apos;m also grateful to cradle that they said , use solar energy .
and that &apos;s what we do , and as far as we get , the talk of premium cola , that you can be a collective again and use solar energy , here &apos;s a little bit together .
and yeah , i just want to encourage you , in the sense that you can be a little crazy and have a vision .
when someone has taken the efforts and labeled all these sacred things and told them who they are , my photograph of the notre dame-cathedral is suddenly enriched with all this data , and i can use it as a starting point to dive into this room , into this metaverse , which uses photos of other people , and therefore make a kind of overwhelming model of social experience with the use of other providers .
and you really have to stay pretty tough , but i think it &apos;s going to work .
thank you .
when steve lopez , columnist los angeles times , walked through the streets one day in the center of los angeles , he heard a wonderful music .
she came from a man , an african-american , sympathetic , rau , homeless , who played on a violin that only had two strings .
many of you will know the story , because from steves articles about this , later on , a book that was filmed with robert downey junior as steve lopez and jamie foxx was a nathaniel anthony ayers , the contrabassist who studied on juilliard-conservatory , whose promising career was tracked early on by his paranoid schizophrenia .
nathaniel left juilliard , suffered a breakdown , and 30 years later , he lived as homeless on the streets of skid row at the center of los angeles .
i recommend all of you to read steves book or watch the film , so that not only do you understand the magnificent connectedness that emerged between these two men , but also how music helped make that connection , and how it was ultimately the instrument when that word game is allowed to get the mithalf , nathaniel away from the street .
i met mr ayers in 2008 , two years ago , at walt disney concert hall .
he had just heard a demonstration of beethoven &apos;s first and fourth symphony , and he came behind the stage to imagine me .
he spoke in a very hot and gregarious tone about yo-yo ma and hillary clinton and how the dodgers would never make it into the baseball world series , and all of this because of the suspicion passage of the first violin in the last sentence of beethoven &apos;s fourth symphony .
and of course , byproduct of all of this is the immense virtual models of every interesting part of the earth that were not only preserved by the flights or satellite images and so on , but by collective storage .
we got to talk about music , and a couple of days later , i got an email that said nathaniel was interested in my own education .
i have to mention that nathaniel rejected a medical treatment , because he had already been treated with electroshocks and with thorazine and handcuffs , a trauma that followed him all his life .
as a result , he &apos;s now particularly vulnerable to these schizophrenics , and they &apos;re sometimes so bad , and he &apos;s disappearing for days , going around the streets of skid row , always exposed to this horror and torture of his own mind .
and in the same time that a rice stage was nathaniel , when we started our first lesson in walt disney concert hall , he had this irish flicker in his eyes , and he was completely lost .
he talked about invisible demons and smoke and how someone wanted to poison him in sleep .
i was afraid , not opinion , but i was afraid that i could lose him , that he could fall into one of his states , and that i could destroy his relationship to the violin when i started talking about scale and arpeggios and other exciting forms of didactic limb .
so i just started playing .
i played the first sentence by beethoven &apos;s violin concert .
and while i was playing , i noticed that in nathanian &apos;s eyes , a complete change was happening .
it was as if he was standing under the influence of an invisible arznei , a chemical reaction that catalyst was my game .
thank you .
nathaniels of manic anger turned into understanding , into quiet curiosity and grace .
and like a miracle , he took his violin and began to play some clips of violin concerts , and then asked me to finish them : mendelsson , tschaikowski , sibelius .
we then started talking about music , from bach to beethoven , brahms , bruckers and all the other bs , from bartok to esa pekka salons .
and i realized that not only did he have an encyclopedic knowledge of music , but he also had a close personal relationship with it .
he talked about her with a passion and an understanding that i only know about my colleagues in the philharmony of los angeles .
by playing music and talking about music , this paranoid , confused man who had just moved through the streets of los angeles , had become a loving , educated , excellent , in juilliard trained musicians .
music is medicine . music changes us .
for nathaniel , music means mental health .
because the music allows him to reform his thoughts and delusions with his imagination and creativity into something real .
and so he &apos;s escaping his agonizing states .
do i get you right ? your software allows you to , at a certain point , in the next few years , all the images that are used by someone in the world are basically connected together ?
i understood that this is the nature of art .
that &apos;s why we make music : so that we can create something that &apos;s inside of us , deep inside , our feelings , through our artistic lens , through our creativity to reality .
and the reality of that expression reaches us all , and moves , inspired and united .
in terms of nathaniel , the music brought him back into a community of friends .
the dissolving power of music brought him back into a family of musicians who understood him , who recognized his talent and looked at him .
and i &apos;m going to keep playing with nathaniel , whether in the walt disney concert hall or skid row , because he reminds me of why i became a musician .
thank you .
bruno giussani : thank you very much . thank you .
robert gupta .
robert gupta : i want to play something that i &apos;ve been unfortunate to stole the cellist .
yes . it doesn &apos;t do anything but discover .
i hope you &apos;ll forgive me .
so i &apos;ve known a lot of fish in my life .
i just loved two .
that first one , that was more like a passionate affair .
it was a beautiful fish , tasty , good consistency , rich , a bestseller on the menu .
what a fish .
even better , it was raised in aquaculture after the most supposedly highest standards of sustainability .
so you could feel comfortable selling it .
i had a relationship with this beauty over several months .
one day , the head of the company called and asked if i could do an event about the sustainability of the farm .
every language is like an old-growth forest of the mind , a turning point , an idea , an ecosystem of spiritual possibilities .
if you want , it creates hyperlinks between the images .
&quot; of course , &quot; i said .
here was a company that was trying to solve what became this incredible problem for our chefs . how do we keep fish on our menu ?
in the last 50 years , we &apos;ve fished the ocean as we &apos;ve beaten forests .
it &apos;s hard to overestimate the destruction .
90 percent of the big fish that we love , the tuna , the healing butte , the salmon , the swordfish , they &apos;ve collapsed .
there &apos;s almost nothing left .
so , probably or evil aquaculture , fishery building , will be part of our future .
a lot of arguments against it . fishing facilities are polluting the environment , most of you anyway , and they &apos;re inefficient , we take tuna . a big disadvantage .
he has a food processing from 15 to one .
that means 15 pounds of wild fish are necessary to get a pound of the tuna .
and it does this because of the content in the images .
not very sustainable .
it doesn &apos;t taste very good either .
so here was finally a company that was trying to do it right .
i wanted to support them .
the day before the event , i called the head of public work for the company .
let &apos;s call him don .
don , i said , &quot; just to have the facts right , you &apos;re famous for growing so far out in the ocean that you &apos;re not polluting the environment . &quot;
&quot; that &apos;s true , &quot; he said . &quot; we &apos;re so far out that the waste is distributed by our fish , is not concentrated . &quot;
and then he added , &quot; we &apos;re basically a world of our own .
this food processing from 2.5 to one , &quot; he said .
and that &apos;s really exciting when you think about the abundance of the semantic information that many of these images have .
&quot; the best in the industry . &quot;
2.5 to one , great .
&quot; 2.5 to one thing ? what do you feed ? &quot;
&quot; sustainable proteins , &quot; he said .
&quot; great , &quot; i said . set up .
and that evening , i was lying in bed thinking , what the hell is a sustainable protein ?
so the next day , just before the event , i called , don .
i said , &quot; don , what are sustainable proteins ? &quot;
he said he didn &apos;t know . he &apos;s going to ask .
well , i telephone with a couple of people in the company , and no one could give me a decent answer until i finally telephone with the senior biologist .
like if you take a web search for images , where you type in sentences and the text of the website contains a lot of information about what image this is .
let &apos;s call it don as well .
don , i said , &quot; what are sustainable proteins ? &quot;
well , he mentioned some algae and some fish meals , and then he said , chicken pellets .
i said , &quot; chicken pellets ? &quot;
he said , &quot; yes , feathers , skin , bone flour , rests , dried and processed to feed . &quot;
i said , &quot; how much percent of your food is chicken ? &quot;
in the presumption of maybe two percent .
&quot; well , that &apos;s about 30 percent , &quot; he said .
i said , &quot; don , what &apos;s sustainable about feeding chicken to fish ? &quot;
there was a long pause in the line , and he said , &quot; there &apos;s just too much chicken in the world . &quot;
but how about the picture connecting you to all your images ?
i fell in love with this fish .
no , not because i &apos;m a self-righteous enjoyer and a good person .
that &apos;s me .
no , i actually fell in love with this fish because , i swear to god who &apos;s been chasing fish after this conversation .
this second fish , that &apos;s a different kind of love story .
it &apos;s the romantic way , the way in which , the better you get to know your fish , you love the fish the more .
i first ate it in a restaurant in southern spain .
a friend of mine had been talking about this fish for a long time .
it kind of summed us up .
he came up to the table with a bright , almost shady white color .
then the scope of the semantic cross connection and the abundance that comes out of it is really enormous . it &apos;s a classic network effect .
the chef had cooked it .
hold on twice .
amazingly , he was still delicious .
who can make a fish taste so good after it was cooked ?
i can &apos;t , but this guy can .
let &apos;s call it miguel . in fact , it &apos;s called miguel .
and no , it didn &apos;t cook the fish , and it &apos;s not a chef , at least in the way that you and i understand underneath .
he &apos;s a biologist at veta la palma .
this is a fish elevator in the southwestern corner of spain .
it &apos;s near the coin of the river guadalquivir .
blaise , that &apos;s really incredible . heartfelt congratulations .
until the 1980s , the farm was in the hands of argentina .
they were growing meat cattle on what were basically wetlands .
they did it by depositing the country .
they built this complicated consequence of channels , and they pushed water out of the country and out into the river .
well , they couldn &apos;t make it work , not economically .
and ecologically , it was a disaster .
it killed about 90 percent of the birds , which is a lot of birds to this place .
and so in 1982 , a spanish environmental awareness company bought the country .
what did they do ?
they &apos;ve reversed the flow of water .
thank you very much .
they literally flipped the lever .
instead of pushing the water out , they used the channels to pull the water back in .
they flew the channels .
they created a 1,000-acre fish elevator -- bark , seafood , shrimp , aal -- and in doing so , miguel and his company completely reversed the ecological destruction .
the farm is incredible .
i mean , you &apos;ve never seen anything like this .
they &apos;re staring out on the horizon , which is a million miles away , and all they see is flooded channels and this dense , lush march .
i wasn &apos;t there long ago with miguel .
he &apos;s an incredible guy , three parts charles darwin and a part of &quot; a crocodile to kiss . &quot;
okay ? there we were , and we were fighting through the wetlands , and i was cheating , and i was sweating , and i was matsch to my knees , and miguel is quietly holding a biology lecture .
i &apos;m going to tell you some things from my book that , i hope , are in harmony with other things that you &apos;ve already heard , and i &apos;m going to try to make some connections , if you haven &apos;t noticed them .
here he is highlighting a rare glitaar .
now he &apos;s mentioning the mineral needs of phytoplankton .
and here , he sees a pattern of bundles that reminds him of the tanzanian giraffe .
it turns out that miguel spent most of his career in mikumi national park in africa .
i asked him how he became such a fish expert .
he said , &quot; fish ? i don &apos;t know about fish .
i &apos;m an expert in relationships . &quot;
and then he goes and he falls into more of the talk of rare birds and algae and strange water plants .
and don &apos;t get me wrong , that was really fascinating , you know , the biotic community unplugged , like that .
it &apos;s great , but i was in love .
i want to start with what i call &quot; official dogma . &quot;
and my head got weak about this cooked piece of delicious fish that i had in the evening .
so i interrupted it . i said , &quot; miguel , how come your fish tastes so well ? &quot;
he pointed to the algae .
&quot; i know , boy , the algae , the phytoplankton , the relationships , that &apos;s incredible .
but what do your fish eat ?
what is the food processing ? &quot;
well , he goes on to tell me that it &apos;s such a rich system that the fish would eat what they would eat in the wild .
the plant biomass , the phytoplankton , the zooplankton , that &apos;s what the fish feed .
the system is so healthy , it &apos;s completely self-sustaining .
there &apos;s no food .
and of these 6,000 languages today , as we sit here in monterey , half of them are no longer whispered into children &apos;s ears .
the official dogma of what ?
is there any farm that their animals don &apos;t feed ?
later on the day , i was driving around on this site with miguel , and i asked him , i said , &quot; for a place that seems so natural , &quot; unlike any farm i &apos;ve ever been on , &quot; how do you measure success ? &quot;
at that moment , it was as if a film director had demanded a change in time .
and we bent around the corner , and we had the most incredible look at it , thousands and thousands of brushes of flamingos , a literally pink carpet so far as the eye goes .
&quot; that &apos;s success , &quot; he said .
&quot; look at your practices , pink .
they &apos;re bad . &quot;
bad ? i was completely confused .
i said , &quot; miguel , don &apos;t you wear your fish ? &quot;
&quot; yes , &quot; he said .
the official belief set of all western industrialized societies .
&quot; we lose 20 percent of our fish and fish eggs to the birds .
now , last year , on this site , 600,000 birds , more than 250 different species .
it &apos;s become the largest and one of the most important private avian reserves in europe today .
i said , &quot; miguel , is a well-thriving bird population not the last thing you want to have on a fish elevator ? &quot;
he shake his head , no .
he said , &quot; we &apos;re building extensively , not intensely .
this is an ecological network .
the flamingos eat the shrimp .
the shrimp eats the phytoplankton .
so the pink the belly is the better the system . &quot;
the way the official dogma works is that if our goal is to maximize the public well-being of our citizens , it &apos;s mainly due to maximizing the freedom of the individual .
okay , let &apos;s rethink that . a farm that doesn &apos;t feed their animals and a farm that measures their success in the health of their predators .
a fish elevator , but also a bird reserve .
oh , and by the way , these flamingos from the beginning shouldn &apos;t even be there .
they breed in a city 240 kilometers away , where the ground nature is better for nest maintenance .
every morning , they fly 240 kilometers to the farm .
and every night they fly back 240 kilometers .
they do it because they can follow the strictly white line on the highway a92 .
seriously .
i had a kind of trip of penguins , so i looked at miguel .
i said , &quot; miguel , are you going to fly 40 kilometers to the farm , and then fly back 240 kilometers in the evening ?
the reason for this is that freedom is good in itself , valuable , meaningful , an unable condition for the human .
do you do that for the kids ? &quot;
he looked at me like i &apos;d just quoted a song by whitney houston .
he said , &quot; no . you do it because the food is better . &quot;
i didn &apos;t mention the skin of my beloved fish that was delicious , and i don &apos;t like fish skin . i don &apos;t like it . i don &apos;t like it .
it &apos;s this sweeping , encoded taste .
i almost never cook with it .
and yet , when i tried it in this restaurant in southern spain , it didn &apos;t look like fish skin at all .
it tasted sweet and shrinking as if you were to take a bite from the ocean .
i mentioned this to miguel , and he was nodding .
he said , &quot; the skin works like a sponge .
when people have freedom , each of us is acting for ourselves to do the things that maximize our public good and no one has to decide for us .
she &apos;s the last defense before something comes into the body .
it &apos;s been evolving throughout evolution to suck up unreinforces . &quot;
and then he added , &quot; but our water has no unreintegration . &quot;
okay . a farm that doesn &apos;t feed their fish , a farm that measures their success at the success of their predators .
and then i realized that when he says a farm that doesn &apos;t have an unpurity , it &apos;s powering tremendous , because the water that flows through this farm comes in from the river of guadalquivir .
it &apos;s a river that leads all the things that rivers now tend to lead them to , chemical pollutants , abundance of pest control .
and when it has fought through the system , and this is what makes the water clean than how it came in .
the system is so healthy , it cleans the water .
so not only a farm that doesn &apos;t feed their animals , not just a farm that measures their success in the health of their predators , but a farm that is literally a water treatment plant , and not just for these fish , but for you and me .
because when the water flows out , it goes down in the atlantic .
the way to maximize freedom is to maximize choice .
a drop in the ocean , i know , but i take it , and you should do that , because that love story , however romantic , is also an envelope .
you might say that it &apos;s a recipe for the future of good food , whether we &apos;re talking about bark or meat cattle .
what we need now is a radical new concept of agriculture , of one where food actually tastes good .
but for a lot of people , that &apos;s a little bit too radical .
we &apos;re not realists , we &apos;re more enjoyable . we &apos;re lovers .
we love weekly markets . we love small family businesses . we talk about local food . we eat bio .
and if you say that these are the things that insure the future of good food , somebody gets up and says , &quot; hey guys , i love pink flamingos , but how are you going to feed the world ?
how will they feed the world ? &quot;
can i be honest ?
i don &apos;t like that question .
the more choices people have , the more freedom they have , and the more freedom they have , the more well-being they have .
no , not because we &apos;re already producing enough calories to feed the world more than just .
a billion people are going to starve today .
one billion -- that &apos;s more than ever before -- because of crashing inequalities in distribution , not total production .
now , i don &apos;t like this question because it &apos;s been the logic of our food system that &apos;s been determining for the last 50 years .
feeding grain of herbivores , pest control for monocultures , chemicals to earth , chicken to fish , and all the time the agricultural industry simply asked , &quot; if we feed more people cheaper , how terrible can that be ? &quot;
that was the reason . it was the justification . it was the business plan of american agriculture .
we should call it what it is , a business in partnership , a business that is rapidly ecological capital that enables that very production .
this is not a business , and it &apos;s not agriculture .
our crop chamber is threatened today , not because of decreasing resources , but because of decreasing resources .
not through the latest mice and tractor inventions , but through fertile land , not through pumps , but through fresh water , not through chainsaws , but through forests , and not through fishing boats and nets , but through fish in the sea .
this is , i think , so deep in our water supply that no one would come to mind .
you want to feed the world ?
let &apos;s start with the question : how are we going to feed ourselves ?
or better , how can we create conditions that enable each community to feed itself ?
to do that , don &apos;t look at the agricultural industrial model for the future .
it &apos;s really old , and it &apos;s done .
capital , chemistry and machines are in there , and it &apos;s never really produced a good thing to eat .
instead , let &apos;s look at the ecological model .
that &apos;s the one that goes back to two billion years of working experience .
look at miguel , farmers like miguel .
businesses that are not worlds for themselves , businesses that are restoring instead of consuming , businesses that grow extensively instead of just intense , farmers who are not just producers , but experts of relationships .
and it &apos;s also deeply rooted in our lives .
because they &apos;re the people who are experts who are also taste .
and if i &apos;m really honest , you &apos;re a better chef than i &apos;m ever going to be .
you know , i &apos;m right , because if that &apos;s the future of good food , it &apos;s going to be delicious .
thank you .
if i want to bring you to one thing today , the total amount of data that we consume is larger than the sum of your parts , and instead of thinking about information overload , i want you to think about how we can use information so that patterns can emerge , and we can see trends that otherwise wouldn &apos;t have been visible .
so what we &apos;re seeing here is a typical mortality diagram based on age .
the program i &apos;m using here is a little experiment .
it &apos;s called pivot and what i can do with pivot is i can filter after a certain cause of death , say accidents .
and immediately i see another pattern that comes out .
and that &apos;s because in the middle here , people are the most active , and they &apos;re the ones over here .
i &apos;m going to give you some examples of what modern progress allows us to do .
we can go one step further and then rearrange the data and see that circular disease and cancer are the usual suspects , but not for everyone .
now , as we move on and sort by age , let &apos;s say 40 years or younger , we see that accidents are actually the main cause that people should worry about .
and if you go on to research , it &apos;s particularly true for men .
so you realize that looking at information and data , in this way , is very reminiscent of swimming in a living information graph .
and if we can do this for raw data , why not for content itself ?
now what we have here are the cover images of every single sports illustrated that have ever been printed .
it &apos;s all here . it &apos;s all online .
you can test it after my talk in your room .
with pivot , you can dive into a decade .
you can dive into a particular year .
they &apos;re no longer taught to be a little kid , which means , if nothing is done , they &apos;re actually dead .
this is my supermarket . it &apos;s not a big one .
you can jump directly to a particular issue .
now when i look here , i see the athletes that appear in this issue and the athletes .
i &apos;m a lance armstrong fan , so i click on this , where i &apos;m going to show you all the spending that lance armstrong is mentioned .
now , if i just want to get a bigger overview , i could think , &quot; ok , what if i look at everything with the theme of biking ? &quot;
so i &apos;m going to take a step back , and i &apos;m going to take the perspective .
now i see greg lemond .
and so you get an idea that if you go through this kind of information , target , broader , zoom in , zoom out , you don &apos;t just search or surf .
you do something that &apos;s actually a little bit different .
it &apos;s something in between , and we think it changes the way information can be used .
i want to take this idea a little further with something like a little crazy .
i just want to say a little bit about salatdressing .
what we &apos;ve done here is we &apos;ve taken every single wikipediasite and we &apos;ve reduced it to a little summary .
the summary contains a short overview and a symbol of the area that it comes from .
i &apos;m just showing the top 500 of the most popular wikipediasites .
but even in this limited view , we can do a lot of things .
immediately we get a sense of the topics that are most popular on wikipedia .
i &apos;m going to choose the issue of government .
now , after i &apos;ve chosen government , i realize that the wikipediategies that are most likely to cover time magazine &quot; people of the year . &quot;
this is really important , because this is a realization that &apos;s not in a single wikipediasite .
this is just recognizing when you step back and you look at the whole thing .
looking at one of these summaries , i can then go into the theme of time magazine &quot; people of the year , &quot; and see everybody together .
there are 175 dressings in my supermarket , if you don &apos;t count the 10 different extra olive oil and 12 balances that you could buy to make a large number of your own salad dessings , in which unlikely case that none of the 175 is right in the store for you .
now when i look at all these people , i realize that the majority of them are government officials , some of them come from science . some , even less , come from the economy . here &apos;s my boss . and one comes from the music sector .
and interestingly , bono is also a ted prize winner .
so now we can jump and look at all the ted prize winners .
you can see , we &apos;re surfing on the web for the first time , as if it &apos;s actually a web , not just from side to side , but much more abstract .
and so i want to show you what else might be a little surprise .
i &apos;m just going to show you the new york times website .
pivot , this application -- i don &apos;t want to call it a browser ; it &apos;s really not a browser , but you can look at websites -- and we bring this zoom-technology to every single website like this .
so i can take a step back and jump directly to a specific section .
so this is important because it &apos;s only by looking at websites in this way , you can look at the whole internet course in the same way .
so i can zoom in on my course in a certain time frame .
so that &apos;s what the supermarket is like .
this is the state of the entire demonstration that i &apos;ve been holding to this point .
and i can sort of get everything i &apos;ve looked at today back .
and , if i take a step back and look at everything , i can rearrange my trajectory maybe for my search past . here , i looked for nepotistic , here to bing , or live labs .
and from here , i can go into the page and call it back up .
it &apos;s a metaphor that &apos;s used over and over again , and every time it makes the total picture bigger than the sum of the files .
right now , in this world , we think that data is a curse .
we &apos;re talking about the flow of information .
we &apos;re talking about &quot; drowning in information . &quot;
what if we could turn this situation around and turn the internet upside down , so that instead of always going from one to the other , we can start to go from many things to many things , and by doing that , see patterns which ones would have remained hidden ?
if we can do that , then this current data trap , maybe a new source of information becomes meaningful .
and then you go to the consumer electronics business to put together a stereo -- loudspeaker , cd player , a cassette player , radio , amplifier . and in this one electronics business , there are so many stereo facilities .
and , instead of just moving into information , we can get knowledge from it .
and if we know , we may even be able to pull wisdom from it .
and i &apos;ll stop there , thank you very much .
i grew up with a heard portion of science fiction .
in my school time , i drove buses to school every day an hour per hour .
and my nose was always in a book , a science-fiction book that kidnapped my thoughts into other worlds , and in a narrative way , my deep sitting in me , insatiable curiosity .
and this curiosity also showed that whenever i wasn &apos;t in school , i would go through the forests and go and collect samples , frogs and snakes and beetles and pond water , i would bring it all home and look under the microscope .
i was totally enthusiastic about science , you know .
it was all about trying to understand the world and to explore the limits of the possible .
and my love of science fiction seemed to reflect in my environment , because back in the late &apos; 60s , we went to the moon and studied the deep sea .
we can assemble 6.5 million different stereo facilities from the components that are offered in this one business .
jacques cousteau came into our living rooms with his fascinating shows that showed us animals and places and a world of wonder that we could never have imagined before .
and i think that &apos;s probably been very well adapted to this science fiction role .
and i was an artist .
i could draw . i could paint .
and since there was neither video games nor this oversaturation with computer-generated movies nor all the imagery in the media landscape , i had to create the images in my head .
we all had to . when we read a book as children , we took the description of the author and we project it on the canvas in our heads .
my response was to draw and paint from aliens , alien worlds , robots , spaceships and all that kind of thing .
in math class , i was always caught by the teacher , as i , hidden behind the textbook , painted .
creativity kind of had to get out .
and something interesting happened to me , because what fascinated me about jacques cousteaus &apos;s shows was the idea of a completely unknown world here on earth itself .
you have to admit that this is a big choice .
i certainly would never get to an alien world with a spaceship , which seemed pretty unlikely to me .
but here was a world that i could actually enter , here on earth , and it was just as fascinating and exotic as all the things i had always imagined when i read these books .
so when i was 15 , i decided to be a diver .
the only problem with this was that i lived in a small village in canada , 1,000 miles from the nearest ocean .
but i didn &apos;t let myself discourage .
i annoyed my father until he finally found a dive school in buffalo , new york , right on the other side of the border , where we lived .
i made my dive bill in a pool of ymca in the middle of the winter in buffalo , new york .
but the ocean , a real ocean , i only got to face two years later when we moved to california .
since then , in the 40 years that have been denied , i &apos;ve spent about 3,000 hours underwater , 500 hours of it in submersibles .
and i &apos;ve learned that the world of the deep sea , even in the shallow oceans , is as rich in fascinating life as we really can &apos;t imagine .
in other areas -- the world of communication .
the imagination of nature doesn &apos;t know any limits , as opposed to our own , bright human imagination .
up until today , i feel the deepest awe for what i see on my dives .
and my love of the ocean continues with the same intensity as ever .
so when i went to a job as an adult , it was the filmmaking .
this seemed the best way to tell my inner drive to tell stories , with my need to create images , with images .
as a child , i kept drawing comic books and so on .
so movies were the way to bring together images and stories . that &apos;s what fit together .
of course , the stories i chose were from the science-fiction area : &quot; terminator , &quot; &quot; aliens , &quot; and &quot; abyss . &quot;
at abyss , i was able to connect my preference for the underwater world and diving with the filmmaking .
so my two passions were sort of intertwined .
there was a time when i was a boy , you could have every phone you wanted as long as it came from ma bell .
something interesting happened in &quot; abyss &quot; : to solve a story problem in this film -- and that is , we had to create some kind of liquid water creatures -- we went back to computer-generated animation , cg .
and what came out was the first computer-generated software surfaces figure ever seen in a movie .
now , the film didn &apos;t raise money , actually , he just played his production cost , but i found something fascinating : the audience around the world was like hypnotized by the magic that came out of it .
according to arthur clarke &apos;s law , famously advanced technology and magic are no longer different from each other .
so they saw something magical .
and i found this incredibly exciting .
and i thought to myself , &quot; wow , that &apos;s really going to have to be involved in film art . &quot;
so we went to &quot; terminator 2 , &quot; my next movie , much further .
and together with ilm , we created the liquid metal guy , and the success depended on how this effect would arrive .
and it worked . again , we had created something magical , and the effect in the audience was the same , but we &apos;ve been playing a little bit more money with the film .
they rented their phone . they didn &apos;t buy it .
from those two experiences , a whole new world was reached , a whole new world of creativity for filmmakers .
so i started a company with my good friend stan winston , who was the best makeup and creator designer at that time , called digital domain .
the basic idea of this company was to skip the phase of analog processes with optical printers , etc . , and start with digital production .
and then we did that , and we created a competitive advantage for a while .
but in the mid- &apos; 90s , we realized that in the creature- and low-level design -- which we actually started the company -- we were getting too slow .
i had written this piece called &quot; avatar , &quot; which was to push the sheet in terms of visual effects and computer-generated effects into very new heights , with realistic human , expressive characters made by cg , and the main figures should all be cg . and the world should be cg .
but the measuring pole was pretty much pushing back , and the people in my company told me that we weren &apos;t going to be able to do that yet .
so i shifted this , and i made this other film about the big ship that goes down .
the movie studio i sold as &quot; romeo and juliet on a ship . &quot; it became a love film of epic order , a passionate film .
but i really wanted to go down to the real wreck of the titanic .
what could be more lonely than being surrounded by the silence , to be one of the last people who speak your language , to have no way to pass on the wisdom of ancestors , or to expect children ?
and as a result , the phone was never broken .
that &apos;s why i made the film .
that &apos;s the truth . the studio didn &apos;t know that .
but i convinced you , by saying , &quot; we &apos;re going to dive to the wreck . we &apos;re going to film the real wreck .
we &apos;re going to show it in the opening sequence of the film .
it &apos;s incredibly important . it &apos;s a good marketer . &quot;
and i convinced them to fund an expedition .
sounds crazy . but again , that &apos;s because your imagination can create a reality .
we actually created a reality six months later where i found myself in a russian submersible , four kilometers below the surface of the north atlantic , looking at the real titanic through a bulleye .
this was not a film , not a hd , this was real .
so , that really blew my mind .
these days are over .
and the preparations were enormous . we had to build cameras and shell and all kinds of things .
and i noticed how much these deep sea changes , a space mission resembled .
well , they were also highly technological and they were allowed to have extensive planning .
you climb into this capsule , you float down into this dark , hostile environment where there is no hope for rescue if you don &apos;t restore it yourself .
and i thought , &quot; wow , that &apos;s like i &apos;m in a science fiction movie .
that &apos;s really cool . &quot;
i was quite obsessed with exploring the deep sea .
anyway , from the part that has to do with curiosity and science , it was all . it was adventure , it was curiosity . it was imagination .
and it was an experience that hollywood couldn &apos;t give me .
because , you know , i could imagine a creature for which we could then design a visual effect , but i couldn &apos;t imagine what i was going to see outside the window .
we now have almost an infinite choice of telephones , especially in the world of mobile phones .
in some of the following expeditions , i &apos;ve seen creatures in thermal sources , and sometimes things that i &apos;ve never seen before , sometimes things that no one had ever seen before , and the science at the time that we saw it had no words at all .
so that really flipped me around , and i wanted more .
and so i made a slightly unusual decision .
after the success of titanic , i said , &quot; okay , i want to put my main job as a filmmaker in hollywood on ice , and i &apos;m going to be a full-time researcher for a while . &quot;
and then we started diving into the bismarck , and we explored them with robotic experiences .
we went back to the wreck of titanic .
we took little robots that we built that were wrapping a fiberglass cable .
our intention was to dive in and look at the inside of the ship , which had never been done before .
no one had ever explored the inside of the wreck . you didn &apos;t have any means to do it . so we developed the technology that we needed .
well , i &apos;m sitting there on the deck of the titanic , in a submersible , and i &apos;m looking at planks that look a lot like these brakes , and i know that once the band has played there .
these are the mobile phones of the future .
and i &apos;m flying with a little robotic experience through the gears of the ship .
i &apos;m just talking about it , but my consciousness is within the vehicle .
it felt like i was physically in the shipping wreck of the titanic .
this was the surreal form of a déjna vu i &apos;ve ever experienced , because before i bog around a corner , i &apos;ve always known what was going to show up in the light cone of the vehicle for months , because i &apos;d run over the movie set when we turned the film .
because the set was a very accurate copy of the blueprint of the ship .
so this was a very strange experience .
she made me realize this telepresence experience that you can use robotic avatars like this and put your consciousness into the vehicle , into this other form of existence .
it was really immensely profound .
and maybe a little bit of a view of what might happen in a few decades , if you have cyborg bodies to explore something or to do other things , in all kinds of post-humane futures that i can think of as a science fiction fan .
and after these expeditions , we started to really appreciate what we had seen down there , like these deep sea waves , where we saw these incredibly amazing animals , which are kind of alien , but here on earth .
my favorite one is the middle -- mp3 playground , nase-hair-trimmer and crème brèlée fackel .
they live with help from chemosynthesis .
they don &apos;t exist in a system based on sunlight , as we do .
and so you see animals that are right next to a 500 degree celsius , that they can survive there .
at the same time , i was very interested in space science , which was again the science fiction of my childhood .
and so i ended up with the people who are interested in space and who have to do with nasa and sit in nasa in nasa expertise and plan for real space missions . they go to russia , go through the mission of biomedical protocol , all around it , and fly to the international space station and take our 3d camera systems .
that was fascinating .
but in the end , it turned out that i took a space scientist to the deep sea .
i took them with me and i sheep them access to the world down there : astrobiologists , planetary scientists , people who were interested in extreme situations , and i took them to the sources so they could look around , sample and test instruments and so on .
but we did documentary movies , but actually science , more specifically , space science .
so the circle between my existence as a science fiction fan , then as a child , and the implementation of reality .
and if you haven &apos;t seen that in your business , you can be sure you &apos;re going to be .
in the course of this journey of discovery , i learned a lot .
i &apos;ve learned a lot about science , but i &apos;m sure you &apos;re thinking , a director has to be able to lead , be a leader like a ship captain or something .
but i didn &apos;t understand much of leadership before i got into these expeditions .
because at some point , i had to say to myself , &quot; what am i doing here ?
why am i doing that ? what &apos;s the point ? &quot;
these stupid movies don &apos;t bring us any money .
we &apos;re going to play the production costs . we &apos;re not going to be traced by ruhm .
everybody thinks i was in between &quot; titanic &quot; and &quot; avatar &quot; and would have walked away and celebrated the nails on a towel on the beach somewhere .
i made all these films , these documentaries , for a very small audience .
no fame , no honor , no money . what are you doing ?
and what it does is it makes people walk into business and ask that question .
you do it for the task , for the challenge -- and the ocean is the most challenging environment you have . you do it for the discovery space way , and because of the strange connection that comes when a small group of people form a team .
because we did all of this with only 10 to 12 people who worked uninterrupted for years , sometimes we were at sea for two to three months .
and in this community , you realize that the most important thing is the attention that you have in front of each other , because you &apos;ve done a task that you can &apos;t explain to anyone else .
when you go back to land and you say , &quot; we have to do it , the fiberglass , the sound weakness , and the whole technology , all the technology , and the difficulty , the human performance , when you work on sea , &quot; you just can &apos;t explain to other people . that &apos;s like policemen or soldiers who have gone through it together and know that they can never explain it to anybody .
there is a connection , a reciprocal respect .
so when i came back to make my next movie &quot; avatar , &quot; i tried to apply the same leadership , which is that you respect your team and you deserve respect in the opposite direction of it .
it really changed the dynamics .
so i stood back with a little team on unknown terrain , and we turned &quot; avatar &quot; with a new technology that didn &apos;t exist before .
extremely exciting .
it &apos;s an enormous challenge .
do you know what the answer to this question is ?
and we became a real family for a four-and-a-half year period .
and so my way of making films changed completely .
there were people who thought we had really taken these ocean creatures and put them on the planet pandora .
for me , it was more of a principle way of doing my job , the actual process that changed in outcome .
so what can we conclude from all of this ?
what lessons did we learn ?
i think the first thing is the curiosity .
it &apos;s the most powerful human quality .
our imagination is a force that can even create a reality .
and the attention of your team is more important than any lorbeer in the world .
the answer is no .
to me , young filmmakers say , &quot; give me a advice on how to do this . &quot;
and i say , &quot; don &apos;t restrict yourself .
it &apos;s getting others for you . don &apos;t do it to yourself , don &apos;t hurt yourself , but take risks for you . &quot;
nasa has such a favorite sentence : &quot; failure is not an alternative . &quot;
but in art and exploration , failure must be an alternative , because it guarantees a trust shot .
no important endeavor that innovation demanded was ever accepted without risk .
you have to be ready to take risks like this .
that &apos;s the idea that i &apos;d like to leave you with , and failure is really an alternative , but fear is not . thank you .
i &apos;m going to talk to you today about energy and climate .
and this may surprise something , because my full-time employment at the foundation is mostly about vaccines and seeds to make the things that we need to invent and deliver to make the poorest two billion a better life .
it &apos;s not possible to buy a mobile phone that doesn &apos;t do too much .
but energy and climate are extremely important for these people , actually more important than anyone else on the planet .
climate change degradation means that their seeds will not grow over many years , we will rain too much or too little , and things will change as it can &apos;t sustain their fragile environment .
that leads to starvation deaths . it leads to uncertainty . it leads to unrest .
so , climate change is going to be terrible for you .
and also , the energy cycle is very important to you .
in fact , if you could only reduce the price one thing , to reduce poverty , energy would be far the most effective .
well , the energy cycle has fallen over time .
in fact , the progress society is based on energy advances .
coal-evolution pushed the industrial revolution , and even in the 20th century , there was a rapid case in the electric cycle , and that &apos;s why we have refrigerators , air conditioning , we can make modern materials and do so many things .
so we &apos;re in a wonderful situation of electricity in the rich world .
and yet , this terrible destiny actually happens to someone anywhere on earth , about every two weeks , because every two weeks , an elderly person dies and takes the last syllabus of an old language to its grave .
in other aspects of life that are much more significant than buying objects , the same explosion of choice is true .
but if we reduce the price -- let &apos;s cut the price in half -- we meet a new barrier , and that barrier is related to co2 .
co2 warms the planet , and the equation for co2 is actually quite clear .
they add up the output co2 that leads to temperature increases , and that temperature elevation has some very negative implications , effects on weather and perhaps worse , indirect implications that the natural ecosystems can &apos;t adapt to such rapid changes , and therefore , collapse whole systems .
now , the exact correlation between a co2 rise and the resulting in temperature change , and where their further implications are , there are some ambiguity , but not very many .
and there &apos;s certainly ambiguity about how bad these consequences are going to be , but they &apos;re going to be extremely bad .
i asked the top scientists a few times , &quot; do we really have to get down to zero ?
not enough half or a quarter ? &quot;
the answer is , until we get close to zero , the temperature will continue to rise .
so it &apos;s a big challenge .
it &apos;s very different from saying we have a three-foot truck that has to go under a three-foot bridge , and then you can kind of squeeze it underneath .
health -- it &apos;s no longer the case in the united states that you go to the doctor and the doctor tells you what to do .
this has to go down , down to zero .
well , we &apos;re pouring out a lot of carbon dioxide every year , over 26 billion tons .
every american , about 20 tons . people from poor countries , less than one .
on average , it &apos;s about five tons for everyone on the planet .
and somehow , we have to make changes that go down to zero .
it &apos;s been up all the time .
only different economic changes have influenced it at all , and we have to go from rapid rise and reduce to zero .
this equation has four factors . a little bit of multiplication . you have this thing on the left -- co2 -- that you want to get to zero , and that will depend on the number of people , on the services that every human uses on average , the average energy for every service and the co2 that is emitted per unit of energy .
so let &apos;s look at every factor and think about how we get this to zero .
probably one of these numbers has to get very close to zero .
instead , you go to the doctor , and the doctor tells you , we could make a , or we could make b .
now this is fundamental algebra , but let &apos;s go through it .
first , we have the population .
today , 6.8 billion people live .
and it &apos;s heading towards nine billion . it &apos;s moving to nine billion .
if we &apos;re very successful with new vaccines , health care and reproduction medicine , we might be able to reduce that by 10 to 15 percent , but right now we see a slope by 1.3 .
the second factor is the services we use .
this includes everything , the food we eat , clothing , tv , heating .
these are very good things and poverty reduction means making these services available to almost everyone on the planet .
it &apos;s great that this number is going up .
in the rich world , in the upper billion , we might be able to dispute and use less , but on average , that number will rise every year , and therefore more than double-double , the number of services that are provided per person .
a has these benefits and risks .
here we see a very fundamental service . is there light at home so you can read the homework ?
and these students don &apos;t have it , so they go out and read their school problems under the street light .
well , in efficiency , the e , the energy per service , there &apos;s finally good news .
we have something that doesn &apos;t rise .
because of different successes in the light sector , through other autotypes , through new methods in the house , there are many services whose energy levels are reduced by 90 percent .
in other services , like making fertilizers , 105 : 05 : 56,000 -- &amp; lt ; 00 : 05 to 58,000 or air traffic or air traffic , the playroom for improvement is much smaller .
in total , if we &apos;re optimistic , we might get a reduction by a factor three or maybe even by a factor of six .
but in the first three factors , we &apos;ve gone from 26 billion to maybe the very best 13 billion tons , and that &apos;s just not enough .
so let &apos;s look at the fourth factor -- and this is going to be a key factor -- that &apos;s the amount of co2 that &apos;s emitted per unit of energy .
the question is , can you get this to zero ?
b has these benefits and risks . what do you want to do ?
if you burn coal , no .
if you burn natural gas , no .
almost every method of manufacturing for electricity today emitts co2 , except the renewables and nuclear energy .
so , what we need to do at a global level is to create a new system .
we need energy miracles .
now , when i use the term &quot; miracle , &quot; i don &apos;t mean the impossible .
the microprocessor is a miracle . the pc is a miracle .
the internet and the service is a miracle .
people here have contributed to the development of many of these miracles .
there &apos;s usually no deadline that you need a miracle up to a particular date .
and they say , &quot; doctor , what should i do ? &quot;
you &apos;re usually just wrong , and some of them don &apos;t .
but in this case , we have to give full gas and get a miracle in very short time .
now , i wondered , how can i really get this over ?
is there a natural illustration , a demonstration that sparks the idea of people here ?
i remembered last year when i brought mosquitos , and somehow people liked that .
the idea became really tangible to you , you know , there are people who live with mosquitos .
for energy , this is what i came up with .
i decided that releasing from fireflies would be my year contribution to the environment here .
so here are some natural fireflies .
i was told that they didn &apos;t bite . in fact , they &apos;re not even going to leave the glass .
the doctor says , a has these benefits and risks and b has these benefits and risks .
well , there are all kinds of game solutions like this , but they don &apos;t do much .
we need solutions , either one or two that have unbelievable scaling and unimaginable reliability , and even though there are many directions where people are looking for it , i really see only five that can afford these big demands .
i &apos;ve left out tides , geothermal , fusion and biofuels .
these may be a modern contribution , and if you do better than i expect , that would be great , but my core point here is that we have to work on all those five , and we can &apos;t give up any of them because they &apos;re intimidating us , because they all have significant problems .
let &apos;s first look at the burning of fossil fuels , burning either coal or natural gas .
what you have to do there may seem simple , but it &apos;s not . you have to capture all the co2 that comes out of the chimneys , catch it , fluidize it and then laugh somewhere and hope it stays there .
there are some pilot projects that can do this at a 60 percent level -- 80 percent level , but getting it to 100 percent is going to be very difficult , and getting an agreement for the storage of co2 is a big challenge . but the biggest problem here is the warehouse question .
who &apos;s going to make it safe ?
who can guarantee what literally billions and billions of times larger than any kind of waste you can imagine of nuclear and other things ?
that &apos;s a lot of volume .
what do you want to do ?
so this is a tough nut .
next , nuclear energy .
it also has three big problems . the cost , especially in high-regulated countries , is high , and the question of security is that you really feel that nothing can go wrong , despite the human participation , that the fuel is not used for weapons .
and then what do you do with the waste ?
because even though it &apos;s not very big , there &apos;s a lot of concern .
so three very difficult problems that might be soluble , and that &apos;s why you should work on them .
i &apos;ve summarized the last three of the five .
it &apos;s renewables , as they &apos;re often called .
and they also have -- although it &apos;s great that they don &apos;t need a fuel -- they have some drawbacks .
one is the energy density that these technologies are generating dramatically lower than the power plants .
and if you said , &quot; if you were me , doctor , what would you do ? &quot;
these are energy farms , you talk about many square kilometers , a thousand times more land than a normal power plant .
and the other thing is that these sources are interrupted .
the sun doesn &apos;t shine all day , it doesn &apos;t seem every day , and it doesn &apos;t always hurt the wind .
so if you &apos;re dependent on these sources , you have to have a way to get the energy in time when it &apos;s not available .
so there are big prices here . there are challenges in transmission . if we say , for example , the energy source is outside the country , you don &apos;t just need the technology , you also have to deal with the risk of energy coming from where else comes from .
and there &apos;s the storage problem .
and to show the dimension , i looked at all kinds of batteries that are made : the cars , computers , cell phones , flashlights , for everything , and i compared that with the amount of electronic energy that the world uses . i found that all the batteries that we &apos;re producing now could store less than 10 minutes of total energy .
so we need a big breakthrough here , something that &apos;s going to be a factor of 100 better than the approaches right now .
that &apos;s not impossible , but it &apos;s not that easy .
this is what happens when you try to get these interrupted sources over 20 percent -- 30 percent of the consumption .
the doctor says , &quot; but i &apos;m not you . &quot;
if you want to support by 100 percent , you need an incredible miracle battery .
now , where should we go : what &apos;s the right approach ?
a manhattan project ? how do we get there ?
what we need is a lot of companies working on this . hundreds .
in each of these five areas , we need at least 100 people .
many of you will say , they &apos;re crazy ! that &apos;s good .
i think there are a lot of people here in the ted group who are already getting involved there .
bill gross has several companies , among other things called esolar , which has great solar technology .
vinod khosla is investing in dozens of companies that are doing great things and have interesting opportunities , and i &apos;m trying to support that .
nathan myhrvold and i are funding a company that , perhaps surprisingly , tracks the nuclear approach .
and i know that some of you say , &quot; isn &apos;t it better ? &quot; wouldn &apos;t the world be a better place if we were all talking only one language ? &quot; and i say , &quot; well , let &apos;s be yoruba . let &apos;s be cantonesian .
the result is -- we call it &quot; patients autonomy . &quot; that sounds like a good thing , but in reality , a shift in the responsibility of making decisions from someone who knows something -- namely the doctor -- to someone who doesn &apos;t know and is most likely sick , and therefore not in the best constitution is to make a decision -- namely the patient .
there are some innovations in the nuclear sector , modular , liquid .
the development stopped in this industry a while ago , so it &apos;s not a big surprise that some good concepts are lying around .
the terrapower-concept means that instead of a part of the uranium , the one percent , the u235 , we decided to burn the 99 percent , the u238 .
this is a pretty crazy idea .
but in fact , they &apos;d been thinking about it for a long time , but you could never reasonably simulate whether it would work , but since there &apos;s modern supercomputers , you can simulate it and see that , yes , with the right material approach , it looks like it works .
and because you burn that 99 percent , the cost profile is much better .
in fact , you burn the waste , and you can actually use the waste from today &apos;s reactors as a fuel .
instead of breaking your head over it , you just burn it . a great thing .
the uranium is used gradually , a little bit like a candle .
you can see that it &apos;s kind of a column , often called a &quot; traveling wave reactor . &quot;
there &apos;s an enormous marketing for prescription drugs for people like you and me , which , if you think about it , doesn &apos;t make any sense at all , because we don &apos;t buy it .
that really solves the fuel problem .
here &apos;s a picture of a place in kentucky .
that &apos;s the waste , the 99 percent . you &apos;ve got the part that &apos;s burned today , so it &apos;s called the recycled uranium .
that &apos;s what drives the u.s. for hundreds of years .
and if you just film ocean water cheaply and simply , you get enough fuel for the rest of the planet &apos;s lifetime .
you know , there are many challenges , but it &apos;s an example of many hundreds of concepts that we need to get forward .
let &apos;s think about how we should measure our success .
what should our evidence look like ?
well , let &apos;s go to the goal that we have to reach , and then we talk about the intermediate step .
many people talk about an 80 percent reduction by 2050 .
why do they advertise around us if we can &apos;t buy ?
it &apos;s really important that we get there .
the rest of the 20 percent will be produced in poor countries , and still some agriculture , hopefully whale threat and cement will be clean until then .
so , in order to reach those 80 percent , the developed world , including countries like china , has to completely translate its electricity generation .
the other note is whether we use zero-emission technology , whether it &apos;s used in all the developed countries , and we &apos;re on the way to get it to the rest .
that &apos;s terribly important .
this is going to be a key element of this stuff .
if we go back from there , what should that be like in 2020 ?
it should be the two elements again .
we should use the efficiency efforts to get reductions on the way , and the less we emitt , the less the co2 will be , and the temperature will be .
but in fact , this note for the things that we do , which are not completely leading to the great reductions , is just the same , or even a little less important , like the other , which is the speed of innovation for these breakthroughs .
the answer is , you expect us to call the doctor the next morning and ask for a change in prescription .
we have to track these breakthroughs with full gas , and we can measure that in corporate numbers , in pilot projects and regulation changes .
there are a lot of great books on this topic .
the al gore book &quot; we have the choice &quot; and david mckays &apos; sustainable energy without the hot air . &quot;
they really go through and create a framework where this can be discussed broadly , because we need support from all sides .
there &apos;s a lot to come together .
that &apos;s a wish .
a very concrete wish that we invent this technology .
if you just let me make a wish for the next 50 years , i could choose the president , a vaccine , and i love that , or i could choose that wish , which is , halved energy cycle without co2 , i would invent that wish .
this one has the biggest impact .
if we don &apos;t get this wish , the dig will be terrible between the long-term and the short-term thinking people between the united states and china , between the poor and the rich , and almost all of those two billion lives will be much worse .
something as profound as our identity is now a question of choice , how to show this slide .
so what do we need to do ?
for what actions am i appealing to ?
we need to use for more research .
if countries meet in places like coppenhagen , they shouldn &apos;t just talk about co2 .
they should talk about this innovation strategy , and they would be shocked by the ridiculously low funds spent on these innovative approaches .
we need market wheels , co2 taxes , cap &amp; amp ; trade , something that creates a price signal .
we have to spread the message .
we need to have dialogue more rational and more complete and also the things that are done by the government .
it &apos;s an important wish , but i think we can fulfill it .
thank you .
we don &apos;t inherit identity , we invent it .
thank you .
thank you . thank you .
thank you very much . just to understand terrapower a little bit better -- first of all , can you give us an idea of the scale of this investment ?
bill gates : to do the simulation on a supercomputer , to get all the big scientists that we &apos;ve done , we only need a few 10 million . and even if we &apos;ve tested our materials in a russian reactor to make sure it works reasonably , you &apos;re only in the 100 million .
the hard step is to build the first reactor , to find another billion , the regularians and the place that actually builds the first one .
once the first one is done , when it goes like promises , it &apos;s all clear , because the economy , the energy density , is so different from nuclear energy as we know it .
in order to understand that , it means to build deep into the ground almost like a vertical column of nuclear fuel , this consumed uranium , and then the process starts up and continues to work down ?
bg : right . now you &apos;ve got to refill the reactor all the time , so there &apos;s a lot of people and a lot of controls that can go wrong . this thing where you open it up and get things in -- or out . that &apos;s not good !
but if you have very cheap fuel , you can fill it up for 60 years -- think of a column -- that buried it without all the complexity .
and it &apos;s sitting there , and it &apos;s burning for 60 years , and then it &apos;s done .
and we are reinventing as often as we want .
a nuclear reactor that provides a solution to the trash itself .
bg : yeah . now , what happens to the waste : you can let it sit -- there &apos;s much less waste with this method -- then you take it and you put it into the next reactor and you can burn it .
and we start by taking the waste that exists already , which is in these refrigerators , or dry containers , in the reactors . this is our starting fuel .
so what was a problem for these reactors is what we fill in our fill , and with that , the volume of waste is dramatically reduced during this process .
but as you &apos;ve talked to different people around the world about these possibilities .
where is the biggest interest in doing this really ?
bg : well , we haven &apos;t yet set ourselves to a place , and there &apos;s a lot of interesting revelations for everything that &apos;s called &quot; nuclear . &quot; there &apos;s a lot of interest , and the people of the company were in russia , india , china ... i was here , and i met the energy minister , and i talked about how it fits to the energy agenda .
i &apos;m optimistic . you know , the french and the japanese have done something along the way .
this is a variant of one thing that was done .
this is an important step forward , but it &apos;s like a faster reactor , and some countries have built it , so everyone who has implemented a fast reactor is a candidate for our first .
that means that every day , if you wake up in the morning , you have to decide what kind of person you want to be .
in your mind , time frame and probability really bring this into life ?
bg : well , we need one of these scalable , electricity generating things that are very cheap , we have 20 years to invent and then use 20 years .
this is kind of the deadline that showed us the environmental models that we have to hold .
and , you know , terrapower , if everything goes well , and that &apos;s a big wish , it could be easily held .
and luckily , there are dozens of companies today , and we need hundreds that , as well as their approaches work , can provide the promotion for their pilots .
and it would be the best way to do it , because then you could use a mixture .
anyway , we need a solution .
the great possible breakthroughs , is this the biggest thing you know ?
bg : an energy breakthrough is the most important thing .
that would have been the environmental requirement , but it makes it so much more important .
in terms of marriage and family , there was a time when the standard assumption was that almost everybody had one , and they married as fast as they could , and then as quickly as children could .
in the nuclear sector , there are other innovative companies .
you know , we don &apos;t know their work as well as this , but there &apos;s the modular method , which is a different approach .
there &apos;s a liquid reactor guy that seems a little hard , but maybe they say that about us .
and so there are different , but the beauty of this is that a uranium molecule has a million times as much energy as a , say , a coal molecule , and therefore , if you can deal with the problems , and they &apos;re mainly the radiation , the footprint and the cost , it plays the potential , so the impact on the country and other things , almost in a league .
if that doesn &apos;t work , then what ?
do we have to do emergency measures to try to keep the temperature stable ?
bg : when you get into this situation , it &apos;s as if you &apos;ve eaten too much , and you &apos;re about to get a heart attack . what do you do ? you might need a heart surgery or something .
there &apos;s a research direction called geoengineering , which is about various techniques to delay global warming , so that we could get 20 or 30 years longer to get together .
this is just an insurance method .
you hope we don &apos;t need that .
the only real choice was &quot; who , &quot; not when , and not what they did after that .
some people say you shouldn &apos;t work on insurance first , because that might make you lazy , so you keep eating because you know that your heart surgery is going to save you .
i don &apos;t know if this is smart , if you look at the importance of this problem , but there &apos;s now a discourse in geoengineering about whether you should have that , if things come faster , or that innovation takes longer than we expect .
climate change scientists : do you have one or two sentences for those who might convince you ?
bg : well , unfortunately , the skeptics live in very different camps .
those who make scientific arguments are very little .
do you say that there are negative effects that have to do with the clouds , that move things ?
there are very , very few things that you can even say , of which there is a chance in a million .
the main problem here is kind of like aids .
you make the mistake now , and you pay for it a lot later .
and so the idea , now , if you have all kinds of urgent problems to invest in something that you have only later -- and the investment is not so clear . in fact , the ipcc report is not necessarily the worst scenario , and there are people in the rich world who look at ipcc and say , okay , that &apos;s not a big drama .
let them be the next one . &quot;
it &apos;s easy to have today .
the fact is that this uncertainty should worry us .
but my dream here is that if you can make it economic , and at the same time , the skeptics say , &quot; okay , i &apos;m not interested in it not emitting co2 , i almost wish it did , but i &apos;m going to accept it because it &apos;s cheaper than the previous method . &quot;
and that would be your answer to the björn lomborg argument , that if you use all this time and energy to solve the co2 problem , all the other goals suffer , the poverty reduction , the fighting of malaria and so on , that there is a stupid waste of resources to invest in it , while there are better things we can do .
bg : well , the actual spending on research -- let &apos;s say the u.s. should spend 10 billion a year more than you do today -- that &apos;s not so dramatic .
the other things shouldn &apos;t suffer from that .
you get too much money , and this is where people who are reasonable can disagree , if you have something that &apos;s not economic , and you &apos;re trying to finance that , and for me , most of the waste is happening here .
except , you &apos;re very short before a cost breakthrough , and you &apos;re just funding the learning curve , and i think we should try more things that have the potential to be much cheaper .
if the waste you get is a very high energy cycle , then only the rich can keep up .
i mean , each of us here could spend five times as much on our energy without changing their lifestyle .
for the bottom two billion , it &apos;s a disaster .
i teach wonderful intelligent students , and i give them 20 percent less work than i used to do .
and even lomborg thinks around .
his new mashup is now , &quot; why isn &apos;t research going to be talking about anymore ? &quot;
he &apos;s still associated with the skeptic camp because of his earlier stories , but he understood that this is a very lonely group , and so he &apos;s now making the research argument .
and this is a thought that i think is appropriate .
the research , it &apos;s just crazy how little it &apos;s being supported .
bill , i think i speak for almost all the people here when i say , i really hope that your wish will come true . thank you very much .
bg : thank you .
a few years ago here at ted , peter skillman presented a design competition called the marshmallow challenge .
the idea is pretty simple . four teams have to build the largest out-of-the-box structure with 20 spaghetti , about a meter tape , about a foot thread and a marshmallow .
the marshmallow has to be up there .
and that &apos;s not because they &apos;re less smart , not because they &apos;re less careful .
and , although it seems really simple , it &apos;s actually really really hard , because it &apos;s pushing people to work very quickly .
and so i thought this was an interesting idea , and i turned it into a design workshop .
it was a huge success .
since then , i &apos;ve done about 70 workshops around the world , with students , developers and architects , even ctos of fortune 50-company , and there &apos;s something about this task that allows deep insights into the nature of collaboration , and i want to share with you some of them .
usually , most people start to orient themselves on the task .
you talk about it , you think about what it &apos;s going to look like , you &apos;re running around power .
then they invest a little bit of time in planning and organization , and they sketch and they put spaghetti .
they &apos;re investing a lot of their time in the assembly , growing structures .
and finally , just before you have no more time , somebody takes the marshmallow , and you put it in the top , step back and &quot; ta-da ! &quot; admire your work .
but then what happens , almost always , is that the &quot; ta-da &quot; becomes a &quot; uh-oh , &quot; because the weight of the marshmallows causes the whole thing to bend and collapse .
it &apos;s because they &apos;re busy with other things , they &apos;re asking themselves , &quot; should i marry or not ? should i marry now ?
there are a number of people who have much more &quot; uh-oh &quot; moments than others , and among the worst , they are fresh bwl graduates .
they lie , they cheat , they &apos;re confused , they &apos;re really drought .
and of course , there are teams who have much more ta-da shapes , and under the best , are fresh graduates of kindergarten .
and that &apos;s pretty amazing .
as peter told us , not only do they produce the highest towers , but also the most interesting structures of all .
what you might ask is : how does this happen ? why ? what about those ?
and peter says , &quot; none of the kids spend time being the head of the spaghetti gmbh . &quot;
they don &apos;t spend time fighting power .
but there &apos;s another reason .
and that is that bwl students were trained to find the right plan , ok .
should i get married later ? should i have children first , or should i have a career ? &quot;
and then realizing it .
then what happens when you put the marshmallow on the top , you don &apos;t have time , and what happens ?
it &apos;s a crisis .
sounds familiar , what ?
what children are doing differently is they &apos;re starting with the marshmallow and building prototypes , successful prototypes , always with the marshmallow at the top , so that they have the ability to repair bloody prototypes .
constructors recognize this kind of collaboration as the core of an iterative process .
and with every attempt , the children get immediate feedback about what works and what doesn &apos;t .
so the power of working with prototypes is essential -- but let &apos;s see how different teams act .
the average for most of them is about half an inch , bwl students make half of them , lawyers do a little bit more , but not a lot , children &apos;s gardens are better than adults .
who is most successful ?
these are all consensus questions .
architects and engineers , fortunately .
one is the highest thing i &apos;ve seen .
and why ? because they understand triangles and self-amplifying geometric patterns are the key to building stable structures .
ceos is about average . but this is where it gets interesting .
if you put an executive administrator on the team , they get significantly better .
it &apos;s incredible . you look around and you see , &quot; this team is going to win . &quot;
you can predict that . why is that ?
because they have special skills of the process accompanion .
you run the process , you understand it .
and that team that rules and looks at the work will significantly improve the performance of the team .
and you &apos;re going to answer these questions regardless of whether that means doing all the tasks that i &apos;m going to give you and not get a good note in my course .
specialized skills and processing skills and their combination lead to success .
if you have 10 teams that are typical , you get about six , you have stable structures .
i was now trying something exciting .
i thought , well , we &apos;re going to bring the poker deployment .
so i offered a $ 10,000 prize software for the winners .
what do you think happened to these design students ?
what was the result ?
this is what happened . not a team had a stable structure .
if anyone had built a two-inch construction , they would have carried the price home .
so isn &apos;t it interesting that high competitions have a strong effect ?
and in fact , you should do that . these are important questions to answer .
we repeated this practice with the same students .
now , what do you think happened ?
now they understood the advantage of the prototyping .
that &apos;s how the same , bad team became one of the best .
they produced the highest construction in the least time .
so there are deep lessons for us about the nature of drive and success .
you might ask : why would somebody actually spend time creating a marshmallow challenge ?
the reason is , i &apos;m helping create digital tools and processes to help teams create cars , video games and visual effects .
and what the marshmallow challenge does is it helps them identify hidden assumptions .
because frankly , every project has its own marshmallow .
work -- we &apos;re blessed at how carl has demonstrated , with the technology that allows us to work every minute from every place on the planet every day -- except for the randolph hotel .
the challenge provides a common experience , a common language , or basic posture , to build the right prototype .
and this is the value of this experience , this simple exercise .
and those of you who are interested in it can visit marshmallowge.com .
it &apos;s a blog where you see the marshmallows building .
there &apos;s a step-by-step guidance there .
you find crazy examples from all around the world of how people optimize and refine the system .
there are also world records .
and the fundamental lesson , i think , is that construction is actually a committing sport .
it demands that we all focus our senses on the task , and that we use our thinking optimally , like our emotions and our doing , in the challenge that we face .
and sometimes a little prototype of this experience is everything it takes to take us from a &quot; uh-oh &quot; -- to a ta-da moment .
there &apos;s a corner , by the way , that i &apos;m not going to tell you about , that the wireless plan works on .
and that can make a big difference .
thank you .
we pretend we have a machine here .
a big machine , a cool , ted machine , and that &apos;s a time machine .
and everyone in this room has to go in .
and you can go to the past , you can go to the future ; you can &apos;t stay here and now .
and i wonder what you would choose , because i &apos;ve often asked my friends this question in the last time , and they wanted to go into the past .
i don &apos;t know . they wanted to go back to time before there were cars or twitter or &quot; america is looking for superstar . &quot;
i don &apos;t know .
i &apos;m convinced that somehow you &apos;ve moved to the nostalgia , to wonder .
and then you would suddenly realize what it would be like if you couldn &apos;t speak your own language .
i &apos;m not going to tell you it because i want to use it .
and i understand that .
i &apos;m not part of this group , i have to say .
i don &apos;t want to go into the past , not because i &apos;m an adventurer .
it &apos;s because possibilities on this planet are not going back , they &apos;re going forward .
so i want to go into this machine , and i want to go into the future .
this is the greatest time we &apos;ve ever had on this planet , no matter what scale you &apos;re doing : health , wealth , mobility , opportunities , declining disease .
there &apos;s never been a time like this before .
my great-grandparents all died when they were 60 .
my grandparents urged this number to 70 .
my parents are the 80 on the heel .
so what it means is that this incredible freedom of choice we have to make decisions about work again and again and again , whether we should or should not work .
so there should be a nine at the beginning of my death rate .
but it &apos;s not even about people like us , because this is a bigger thing than that .
a child born today in new delhi can expect to live as long as the richest man in the world 100 years ago .
think about it . that &apos;s an incredible fact .
and why is that ?
the smallpox . the smallpox killed billions of people on this planet .
they &apos;ve reformed the demographics of the earth in a way that no war has ever done .
they &apos;re gone . they &apos;re gone .
we forced them . phew .
in the rich world , diseases that have threatened millions of us in front of one generation , barely yet .
we can watch our kids play soccer , and we have our cell phone on one hip , and our blackberry on other hip , and our laptop probably on our lap .
diphtery , root , child paralysis ...
does anyone know what that is ?
vaccines , modern medicine , our ability to feed billions of people , are the successes of the scientific method .
and in my view , the scientific method of trying to do things is to see if it works , change it , if it doesn &apos;t , one of the greatest achievements of humanity .
so that &apos;s the good news .
unfortunately , it &apos;s all the good news , because there &apos;s a couple of other problems , and they &apos;ve been mentioned a lot .
and one of them is that despite all of our achievements , a billion people in the world go hungry every day .
that number goes up , and it goes up very quickly , and that &apos;s embarrassing .
and not only that , we &apos;ve used our imagination to really devastating this world .
drinking water , ancient land , rainforests , oil , gas : they disappear , soon , and if we don &apos;t innovate out of this chaos , we also disappear .
and even if you &apos;re all turned off , every minute we watch our child mutilate a football game , we also ask ourselves , &quot; should i take this call ?
so the question is : can we do that ? i think so .
i think it &apos;s clear that we can produce food that will feed billions of people without raping the land that they live on .
i think we can power this world that doesn &apos;t destroy it at the same time .
i really believe that , and no , that &apos;s not a wireless thinking .
but this is what keeps me awake at night -- one of the things that keeps me awake at night . we &apos;ve never had scientific progress as hard as we have now , never .
and we &apos;ve never been able to use it reasonably , as we can today .
we &apos;re at the threshold of amazing , amazing events in many areas , and yet i really think that we need to go back hundreds , 300 years before the enlightenment to find a time when we &apos;ve been fighting progress , where we &apos;ve been fighting over these things more violent , more frontally than now .
people are covering themselves in their faith , and that &apos;s so tight that you can &apos;t free them .
not even the truth will liberate it .
and listen , everybody has a right to their opinion , even a right to make progress .
should i answer this email ? should i write this letter ? &quot;
but you know what they &apos;re not right for ?
they don &apos;t have a right to their own facts . &apos; &quot; sorry , they don &apos;t .
and it took me a while to figure that out .
about a decade ago , i wrote an article about vaccination for the new yorker , a little article .
and i was amazed to bump into resistance , to resistance to what is at the end of the most effective practice in health care in the history of humanity .
i didn &apos;t know what to do , so i just did whatever i do , i wrote an article , and i went on .
and soon after that , i wrote an article about genetically modified food .
the same thing , only bigger .
people were playing crazy .
so i also wrote an article about this , and i couldn &apos;t understand why people thought this was &quot; frankenfood , &quot; why they believed that molecules were going to move around in a particular way , rather than a random way , a surplus to nature .
and even though the answer to the question &quot; no , &quot; it will certainly be your experience of your child &apos;s football game very different than it would have been .
but , you know , i do what i do . i wrote the article , i went on .
i mean , i &apos;m a journalist .
we type , we pass in , we eat , that &apos;s okay .
but these articles were worried about me , and i couldn &apos;t figure out why , and finally i found out .
and that &apos;s because these fanatics , who made me crazy , were not fanatics at all .
these were careful people , educated people , decent people .
they were just like the people in this room .
and that got me so confused .
but then i thought , you know what , let &apos;s face it .
we &apos;re at a point where we don &apos;t have the same relationship to progress as we used to .
everywhere we look , big things and small things , material things and lifestyle , life is a question of choice .
we &apos;re talking about it twenty-four .
we &apos;re talking about this ironically , with little leadership signs about this : &quot; progress . &quot;
okay , there are reasons for that , and i think we know what the reasons are .
we &apos;ve lost trust in institutions , in authority , and sometimes in science itself , and there &apos;s no reason why it shouldn &apos;t be that way .
you can just name a couple of names and people will understand .
chernobyl , bhopal , the challengers , vioxx , weapons of mass destruction , the u.s. presidential election in 2000 .
i mean , you know , you can choose your own list .
there are questions and problems with the people we thought were always right . so be skeptical .
ask questions , ask for evidence , demand evidence .
take nothing for granted .
and the world that we lived in looked like this .
but here &apos;s the thing : if you get the evidence , you have to take that evidence , and we &apos;re not good at that .
and i can say that for the reason that we now live in an epidemic of fear as i &apos;ve never seen it and hopefully never see it again .
about 12 years ago , a story was published , a terrible story that connected the autism epidemic to the masses , mumps , and rotating vaccine .
very scary .
hence studies were conducted to see if that was true .
hence studies should be done ; that &apos;s a serious issue .
the data came in .
the data came in from the united states , from england , from sweden , from canada , and they were all the same , no correlation , no connection , no connection .
it doesn &apos;t matter . it doesn &apos;t matter , because we believe in anecdotes , we believe what we see , what we believe , what makes us feel real .
we don &apos;t believe in a bunch of documents from a government official who gives us data , and i understand that , i think we all do .
so i want to say , there were some choices , but not all was a matter of choice .
but you know what ?
the result was catastrophic .
catastrophic because of this fact : the united states is one of the only countries in the world where the immunized people are falling for masses .
this is scandalous , and we should be ashamed .
it &apos;s terrible .
what happened was that we could do that .
well , i understand that . i do .
because anybody here masses ?
has a single one in the audience ever seen anyone die of masses ?
it doesn &apos;t happen very often .
and the world that we live in now looks like this .
it &apos;s not happening at all in this country , but 160,000 times in the world last year .
this is a lot of deaths from masers , 20 per hour .
but because this didn &apos;t happen here , we can displace it , and people like jenny mccarthy can walk around and promote messages of fear and illiteracy from platforms like oprah and larry king live .
and they can do that because they don &apos;t connect cause and correlation .
they don &apos;t understand that these things seem the same , but they &apos;re almost never the same thing .
and this is something we need to learn , and it &apos;s very fast .
this guy was a hero , jonas salk .
he liberated us from one of the worst spirits of humanity .
no fear , no source , no child paralysis , phew , disappeared .
the guy in the middle is not so much .
so today , i want to take you on a journey through the ethnosphere , a short journey through the ethnosphere , to try to understand to you what was actually lost .
and the question is , are these good news or bad news ?
it &apos;s called paul offit .
he &apos;s just developed a rotavirus vaccine with a couple of other people .
he can save the lives of 4,000-, 500,000 children a year in the developing world .
pretty good , right ?
now , that &apos;s good , apart from paul walking around talking about vaccines and saying how valuable they are , and that people should just stop jamming .
and he actually says that .
so paul is a terrorist .
when paul talks in a public hearing , he can &apos;t say without armed guards .
he gets calls at home because people like to tell him that they know where his kids go to school .
and why ? because paul made a vaccine .
the answer is yes .
i don &apos;t need to say that , but vaccines are essential .
take it away , reverse the diseases , terrible diseases , and that &apos;s happening now .
we have masses in this country now .
and that gets worse , and pretty soon , children will die of it , because that &apos;s just a question of numbers .
and they &apos;re not just going to die of masses .
what about child paralysis ? let &apos;s take that . why not ?
a commiliton of mine wrote me a couple of weeks ago , and she said , &quot; i think i &apos;m a little too shrimp . &quot;
no one ever said that before .
she wouldn &apos;t vaccinate her child against child paralysis . no way .
fine .
we all know what &apos;s good about it , so i &apos;m going to get into what &apos;s bad about it .
why ? because we don &apos;t have child paralysis . and you know what ?
we didn &apos;t have a child paralysis in this country yesterday .
today , i don &apos;t know , maybe this morning somebody in lagos got on an airplane and flies to los angeles , right now they &apos;re over ohio .
and in a few hours , he lands and rents a car , and he comes to long beach , and he &apos;s going to visit one of these fantastic ted dinner tonight .
and he doesn &apos;t know that he &apos;s infected with a paralyzing disease , and we don &apos;t know , because that &apos;s how the world works .
this is the planet that we live on . don &apos;t pretend it &apos;s not .
we love to wrap ourselves up in lies . we love that .
did you take all your vitamins this morning ?
echinacea , a little antioxidant that helps you on the jumps .
i know you did that because half of americans do it every day .
all of these choices have two effects , two negative effects on people .
they take the stuff , and they take alternative cure , and it doesn &apos;t matter how often we find that they &apos;re useless .
the data is constantly proving this .
they evaporate their urine . they almost never do .
that &apos;s okay , you want to pay 28 billion dollars for dark urine .
i totally agree with you .
dark urine . dark .
why do we do that ? why do we do that ?
well , i think i understand -- we hate the pharmaceutical industry .
we hate too strong a government . we don &apos;t have trust in the system .
and we should not . our health care system is mies .
one effect , paradoxically , is that he paralyzes instead of liberating .
it &apos;s cruel to millions of people .
it &apos;s absolutely amazingly cold and soul to ourselves that can afford it .
so we &apos;re going away from it , and where are we going ?
we &apos;re going into the arms of the placebo industry .
that &apos;s great . i love the placebo industry .
but you know , this is really a serious issue , because this stuff is crap , and we spend billions of dollars on it .
and i have all kinds of little props here .
none of them -- gingko , fraud , echinacea , fraud , acai , i don &apos;t even know what that is , but we spend billions of dollars on it , it &apos;s fraud .
and you know what ? when i say that , people scream at me and say , &quot; what cares ? let people do what they want .
that &apos;s how you feel good . &quot;
with so many options you can choose , it &apos;s very hard for people to even choose .
and you know what ? they &apos;re wrong .
because i don &apos;t care if it &apos;s the minister of health who says , &quot; hmm , i &apos;m not going to accept the evidence of my experts on mammography , &quot; or any cancery agent who wants to treat his patients with caffs .
if you &apos;re on this path where belief and magic replacement and science are replacing , you get to a place where you don &apos;t want to be .
they get to thabo mbeki in south africa .
he killed 400,000 of his people because he insisted that red beete , bone and lemon oil , are much more effective than antiretroviral drugs that we know can break the course of aids .
hundreds of thousands of unnecessary deaths in a country that &apos;s worse than any other disease .
don &apos;t tell me that these things don &apos;t have consequences .
they have them . they always have them .
now , the most brainless epidemic we &apos;re in right now is this absurd struggle between the advocates genetically modified food and the bio-elite .
this is an idiotic debate . it has to stop .
i &apos;m going to give you another drastic example of this , a study of investing in volunteer retirements .
it &apos;s a debate about words , about metaphors .
this is ideology , not science .
everything we eat , every rice , every branch of petersily , every rose flour , has been changed by people .
you know , there were no mandarines in paradise .
there were no canary melons .
there were no christmas trees . we did all this .
we &apos;ve done it in the last 11,000 years .
and some of it worked and some of it didn &apos;t .
we got rid of what didn &apos;t work .
now we can make it more precise , and of course there are risks , but we can do something like vitamin a in rice , and this stuff can help millions of people to extend their lives .
a colleague of mine had access to investment records from vanguard , the gigantic fund society of about a million collaborators and about 2,000 different jobs .
don &apos;t you want to do that ?
i have to say , i don &apos;t understand that .
we reject genetically engineered food .
why do we do that ?
now , what i hear all the time is too many chemicals , pesticides , hormones , monoculture , we don &apos;t want huge fields with one thing , which is wrong .
we don &apos;t want companies to patent lives .
we don &apos;t want companies to have seeds .
and you know what my answer to all of this is ?
yes , you &apos;re right . let &apos;s fix that .
it &apos;s true that we have a huge food problem , but that &apos;s not science .
and what she found was per 10 investment fund that the employer was offering , took the participation by two percent .
this has nothing to do with science .
it &apos;s right , morality , patent stuff .
you know , science is not a company .
it &apos;s not a country .
it &apos;s not even an idea ; it &apos;s a process .
it &apos;s a process , and sometimes it works and sometimes it doesn &apos;t , but the idea that we shouldn &apos;t allow science to do its work because we &apos;re afraid is a real dead end , and it keeps millions of people from blowing up .
you know , in the next 50 years , we &apos;re going to have to grow 70 percent more food than at the moment . 70 percent .
this investment in africa in the last 30 years .
shame . shame .
you need that , and we don &apos;t give it to you .
they offer 50 investment fund -- 10 percent less employees participate than if they only offer five . why ?
and why ? genetically modified food .
we don &apos;t want to encourage people to eat this rotten stuff , like maniok .
maniok is something that half a billion people eat .
it &apos;s kind of like a potato .
it &apos;s just a bunch of calories . it &apos;s mies .
it &apos;s got no nutrients , it &apos;s got no protein , and scientists are putting all this into it .
and then people could eat that and they wouldn &apos;t get blind .
you wouldn &apos;t starve , and you know what ?
that would be nice . it wouldn &apos;t be chez panisse , but it would be nice .
and all i can say about this is , why do we fight this ?
we &apos;re all born . we bring children to the world .
now there are some of us who somehow forget that when i say , &quot; different possibilities of being , &quot; i really mean different possibilities of being .
because it &apos;s 50 investment funds that are chosen , it &apos;s so hard to decide which to choose which one to put it on tomorrow .
i mean , let &apos;s ask : why do we fight this ?
because we don &apos;t want to move genes around ?
it &apos;s not about pushing genes around . it &apos;s not about chemicals .
it &apos;s not about our ridiculous passion for hormones , our persistence for larger food , better food , unique food .
it &apos;s not about rice krispies , it &apos;s about keeping people alive , and it &apos;s going to be time to understand what that means .
because you know what ?
if we don &apos;t do that , if we keep going like we &apos;re guilty of something we don &apos;t want to be guilty of , i think , high-tech colonialism .
there &apos;s no other description for what &apos;s going on here .
it &apos;s selfish , it &apos;s ugly , it &apos;s not worthy , and we really have to stop that .
so after this incredibly funny conversation , you might want to say , &quot; do you still want to go into this ridiculous time machine and go into the future ? &quot;
and then tomorrow , and then tomorrow , and tomorrow , and tomorrow , of course , never comes tomorrow .
anyway . i certainly want that .
it &apos;s in the present right now , but we have an incredible opportunity .
we can put this time machine on everything we want .
we can move them where we want to move them , and we &apos;re going to move them where we want to go .
we need to have these conversations , and we need to think , but when we get into the time machine , and we &apos;re going to go into the future , we &apos;re going to be happy to have done that .
i know we can do it , and as far as i &apos;m concerned , that &apos;s something the world needs now .
thank you .
thank you .
i &apos;ve been interested in the placebo effect for some time . it may seem strange that a magician is interested in it , unless you look at it like me , as &quot; a deception that becomes real when someone believes in it . &quot;
in other words , sugar pills have shown , in some studies , a measurable effect , the placebo effect , because the person thinks what &apos;s happening to her is a pharmaceutical or some kind of ... in pain management , for example , there is , if the patient believes only enough of it , a measurable effect in the body called the placebo effect .
understand that this is not just about people having to eat dog food when they retire , because they don &apos;t have enough money to go back , it also means making decisions so hard that they miss large investments in their employers .
a deception becomes something real because someone perceives it that way .
so in order for us to understand each other , i want to show you a very basic , very simple magic trick .
and i &apos;m going to show you how it works . this is a trick that &apos;s been in every magic book since the 1950s .
i learned him from the cub scout magic of the peacock finders in the 1970s .
i &apos;m going to do it for you and then explain it .
and then i &apos;ll explain why i explain it .
so , look what happens .
the knife you can study , my hand that you can study .
i &apos;m just going to keep the knife in my lap like this .
i &apos;m going to push my sleeve back .
by not participating , they give up to 5,000 u.s. dollars a year on the employer who would have been happy to reproduce their contributions .
and to make sure that nothing in my sleeve disappears or comes out of it , i &apos;m just going to put my wrist right here .
in this way , you can see that nothing moves at any time , and as long as i push here , nothing can go into my sleeve or come out .
and the goal here is very simple .
i &apos;m going to open my hand , and hopefully if everything goes well , the knife is held by my mere physical magnetism .
it actually sits so hard in its place that i can shake it without the knife falling down .
nothing goes into my sleeve or comes out , no tricksery , and you can study everything .
ta-da !
now , this is a trick that i often teach young kids who are interested in magic , because you can learn a lot about deception , if you look closer , even though it &apos;s a very simple thing to do .
probably many of you in this room know this trick .
here &apos;s how it works .
paralysis is a consequence of too many choices .
i hold the knife in my hand .
i say that i include my wrist to make sure that nothing in my sleeve disappears or comes out , and that &apos;s a lie .
the reason i hold my wrist is because it &apos;s the actual secret of illusion .
because the moment i turn my hand away from you , so you can see it from the back , this finger is moving , my index finger , just from where it was , to a position where it was so extended .
great trick ?
there &apos;s somebody in the back who didn &apos;t have a childhood .
so , it &apos;s here . right .
and when i turn around , the finger changes its position .
and now you could talk about why this is a deception , why you don &apos;t realize that there are only three fingers down here : because the mind and the way it process information doesn &apos;t count one , one , two , three , but see it as a group .
but that &apos;s actually not what this is about . and then i open my hand .
and i think it makes the world look like this .
of course , it &apos;s held there , but not by the magnetism of my body , but by a trick , by my index finger , which is now there .
and when i close my hand , the same thing happens by turning back , is hidden by this movement that the finger is moving back .
i take this hand away . and here &apos;s the knife .
you can do this trick to your friends and neighbors . thank you .
now , what does this have to do with the placebo effect ?
a year ago , or something , i read a study that really blew my mind .
i &apos;m not a doctor or a researcher , and that was an amazing thing to me .
it turns out that if you offer a placebo in the form of a white pill , in the form of an aspirintablet , it &apos;s just a round , white pill that has a particular measurable effect .
but if you change the shape in which you give placebo , for example , into a smaller pill , and you color those blue and you shape a letter on it , it &apos;s actually measurably more effective .
and that , although none of them are pharmaceutical -- they &apos;re just sugar pills .
you really want to make the decision right if it &apos;s for all eternity , right ?
but a white pill is not as good as a blue pill .
what ? that really freaked me out .
but it turns out that that &apos;s not all it is .
if you take capsules , they &apos;re even more effective than pills of any shape .
a colored capsule that &apos;s on one end yellow and on the other red is better than a white capsule .
the dosage also plays a role .
a pill twice a day is not as good as three pills -- i can &apos;t remember the exact statistics . sorry .
but the key thing is ...
... that the doses also matter .
and the shape plays a role .
you don &apos;t want to choose the wrong investment fund , or even the wrong salatdressing .
and if you want to have the ultimate placebo effect , you have to reach the needle .
right ? a syringe with an ineffective -- a few milliliters of an ineffective substance that you inject to a patient .
this creates a very strong picture in your head . it &apos;s much stronger than a white pill .
this chart is really -- i &apos;m going to show you another time when we have a projector .
so the fact is that the white pill doesn &apos;t work as well as the blue pill that doesn &apos;t work as well as a capsule that doesn &apos;t work as well as the needle .
and none of it has any really pharmaceutical property , and it &apos;s just our belief that has a stronger effect in us .
i wanted to know if i could use this idea for a magic trick .
i take something that is obviously a deception , and make it look real .
well , we know from this study that you have to reach the needle when you &apos;re supposed to do it .
this is an eight-inch hat needle . it &apos;s very , very sharp , and i &apos;m going to first sterilize it a little bit .
so that &apos;s the one effect . the other effect is that even if we overcome the paralysis and make a decision , we end up less satisfied with the outcome of choice than if we had the opportunity to choose less possibilities .
this is really my meat . it &apos;s not damian &apos;s specialized meat .
this is my skin . this is not a special effect from hollywood .
i &apos;m now going to put this needle in my skin and push it through , until it came back out on the other side .
if you get evil -- if you fall easily in favor -- i showed this to a couple of friends last night in the hotel room , and some people i didn &apos;t know , and a woman has become almost audacious .
so i propose that , if you get evil quickly , you look away for the next 30 seconds , or , you know , i &apos;m going to do the first hot part in the back here .
you can see it in a moment , but you can also see it away if you want .
so , it goes like this , right here , where my meat begins , at the bottom of my arm , i &apos;m just going to make a little einstich .
i &apos;m really sorry . is this crazy ?
and just a little bit through my skin and on the other side , again .
now we &apos;re actually in the same situation that we had at the knife trick .
and there are several reasons for this .
about it .
but now you can &apos;t count my fingers , right ?
so , i &apos;m going to show you . this is one , two , three , four , five .
well , yeah .
i know what people think when they see that .
they say , &quot; okay , it &apos;s not so stupid and it &apos;s going to penetrate itself the skin just to give us a few minutes . &quot;
well , then i &apos;m going to show you .
what does this look like ? pretty good .
yeah , i know .
and people say , &quot; okay . i didn &apos;t really see that . &quot;
take this kid of the barasana in the northwest of the amazon , the people of the anakonda , believe that mythologically they came up from the milky river from the east in the belly of sacred snakes .
one of them is based on the great selection of different salatdressings , if you buy one , and it &apos;s not perfect -- and what salatdressing is already perfect ? it &apos;s easy to imagine that you could have made a different decision that would have been better . and what happens is this image-made alternative to regret the decision , and that regret is negative to the happiness you made from your made decision , even if it was a good decision .
the people in the side rooms are now coming in .
let me show you from near .
this is really my skin . this is not a special effect from hollywood .
this is my meat , and i can turn this around .
sorry . if you get evil , look away , don &apos;t look at it .
the people in the back , or the ones who see this later on , will say , &quot; well , that looks pretty impressive , but if it were real , he would -- you see , here &apos;s a hole , and there , if it was real , it would bleed . &quot;
okay , let me squeeze some blood out for you .
yes , here it is .
i would normally take the needle out now .
i would clean my arm and show you that there were no wounds .
the more possibilities there are , the easier it is to regret nothing at all , that is disappointing for the choice you make .
but i think in this framework here and with the intention of making something real , i &apos;m just going to leave the needle in there and go from the stage .
we &apos;re going to meet a couple of times in the next few days .
i hope you &apos;ll be happy . thank you very much .
everybody &apos;s talking today about happiness .
i &apos;ve had some people count the number of books that have been published with &quot; happiness &quot; in the title of the last five years , and they &apos;ve given up after about 40 , and there &apos;s been a lot more .
there &apos;s a tremendous wave of interest in happiness among researchers .
there &apos;s a lot of happiness coaching .
everybody would like to make people happier .
but despite all this flight of work , there are several cognitive traps that are sort of making it almost impossible to think clearly about happiness .
and my talk today is mainly about these cognitive traps .
secondly , what economists call the oppersian cost .
this is true of layman thinking about their own happiness , and it &apos;s true for scientists who think about happiness , because it turns out that we are just as mess as anyone else .
the first of these fall is a contradiction to admit complexity .
it turns out that the word happiness is simply not a useful word anymore , because we apply it to too many different things .
i think there &apos;s a certain meaning that we could narrow it down to , but by and large , that &apos;s something that we &apos;re going to have to give up , and we &apos;re going to have to take the complicated view of what well-being is .
the second trap is a confusion of experience and memory : basically it &apos;s between being happy in his life and being happy about his life or happy with his life .
and these are two very different concepts , and they &apos;re both thrown together in the idea of happiness .
and the third is the concentration illusion , and this is the unfortunate fact that we can &apos;t think about a circumstance that affects well-being without distorting its meaning .
i mean , this is a real cognitive trap .
there &apos;s just no way to get it right .
now , i &apos;d like to start with an example of someone who had a question and answer session after one of my lectures that reported a story . &#91; unclear &#93; he said he had heard a symphony , and it was absolutely wonderful music , and at the end of the recording , there was a terrible circular sound .
dan gilbert made a big point this morning by telling how much the way we evaluate things depends on what we compare it .
and then he added , really quite emotionally , that ruined the whole experience .
but it didn &apos;t have that .
what it had ruined was the memories of the experience .
he had the experience .
he had 20 minutes of glorious music .
they didn &apos;t count because he was connected to a memory ; the memory was ruined , and the memory was all he had received .
what this really tells us is that we could think about ourselves and other people in the sense of two kinds of self .
there is a living self that lives in the present and knows the present , able to experience the past , but basically only has the present .
it &apos;s the living self that the doctor is attacking -- you know , when the doctor says , &quot; does it hurt when i touch you here ? &quot;
and then there is a reminder of self , and the memory self is the one that counts and receives the history of our lives , and it &apos;s the one that the doctor addresses by asking the question , &quot; how did you feel lately ? &quot;
well , if there are lots and lots of alternatives to think about , it &apos;s easy to imagine attractive properties of alternatives that exclude them , that makes them less satisfied with the alternatives that they &apos;ve chosen .
or &quot; what was your journey to albania ? &quot; or something like that .
these are two very different units , the living self and the remembering self , and the two of them are part of the very different understanding of happiness .
well , the memory self is a storyteller .
and that really starts with a fundamental reaction to our memories -- it starts immediately .
we &apos;re not just telling stories when we &apos;re about telling stories .
our memory tells us stories , which means what we can keep from our experience is a story .
and let &apos;s start with an example .
there &apos;s an old study .
these are real patients undergoing a painful procedure .
i &apos;m not going to go into the details . she &apos;s not painful anymore , but she was painful when this study was done in the 1990s .
here &apos;s an example . for those of you who are not new yorkers , i apologize .
they were asked to report their pain every 60 seconds .
and here are two patients . these are their records .
and they &apos;re asked , &quot; who &apos;s suffered more ? &quot;
and that &apos;s a very simple question .
patient b clearly suffered more . his gut reflection was longer , and every minute of pain the patient a had patient b , and more .
but now there &apos;s another question : &quot; how much did these patients think they were suffering ? &quot;
and here &apos;s a surprise .
and the surprise is that patient a had a much worse memory of the gut reflection than patient b .
the stories of the gut reflections were different , and because a very important part of the story is how it ends .
and none of these stories are very uplifting or great -- but one of them is this clear ...
but here &apos;s what you should have thought .
but one of them is much worse than the other .
and the one that &apos;s worse was where the pain was at the very end of his peak . it &apos;s a bad story .
how do we know that ?
because we asked these people about their gut reflection , and much later , &quot; how bad was the whole thing all about ? &quot;
and she was much worse for a than b in memory .
now , this is a direct conflict between the living self and the remembering self .
from a living self &apos;s point of view , b clearly had a worse time .
well , what you could do with patient a , and we actually did clinical experiments , and it &apos;s done , and it works , you could actually extend the gut reflection of patients a by just letting the tube in there without shaking too much on it .
this will lead the patient to suffer , but just a little bit less than before .
and if you do that for a couple of minutes , you &apos;ve done that the living self of patient a is worse off , and you &apos;ve done it , the memory of patient a is much better off , because now you &apos;ve given patient a a a a better story about your experience .
here &apos;s a couple on the hamptons .
what is a story ?
and that &apos;s true of the stories that memory provides us , and it &apos;s true of the stories that we invent .
which is a story that is characteristic of outbreaks , major moments and ends .
end is very , very important , and in this case , the end dominated .
well , the living self lives its life continuously .
it has moments of life , one after the other .
and you ask , what happens to these moments ?
and the answer is really simple . they &apos;re lost forever .
i mean , most of the moments of our lives -- and i &apos;ve calculated that -- you know , the psychological present is true for about three seconds . what that means is , you know , there are about 600 million of them in a life . in a month , there are about 600,000 . most of them don &apos;t leave any trace .
most of you are completely ignored by the remembering self .
very expensive real estate .
and yet they kind of get the impression that they should count that what happens during those moments of life is our lives .
it &apos;s the limited resource that we consume while we &apos;re in this world .
and how we use it would seem to be important , but that &apos;s not the story that keeps the memorable self for us .
so we have the memory self and the living self , and they &apos;re really quite different .
the biggest difference between them is time transition .
from the perspective of the living self , if you have a vacation , and the second week is as good as the first one , then the two-week vacation is twice as good as the one-week vacation .
that &apos;s not how it works for the remembering self .
for the remembering self , a two-week vacation is barely better than the one-week vacation vacation , because there &apos;s no new memories to be added .
they didn &apos;t change the story .
and in this way , time is actually the critical variable that distinguishes a memory of self from a living self , time has very little impact on this story .
beautiful beach . great day . they have it all for themselves .
now , the remembering self makes more than remembering and telling stories .
it &apos;s actually the one that makes decisions , because if you have a patient who had , say , two gut reflections in two different surgeons and decides what to choose , then the one who chooses the memory , which is less bad , and this is the surgeon who &apos;s going to be chosen .
the living self has no voice in this choice .
in fact , we don &apos;t choose between experiences . we choose between memories of experiences .
and even when we think about the future , we don &apos;t usually think of our future as experiences .
we think about our future as predictable memories .
and basically , you can look at this , you know , as a tyranny of the memory self , and you can think of the memory itself as one that kind of sucks the living self through experiences that the living self doesn &apos;t need .
i think that when we make vacation , it &apos;s very often the case , that means we make vacation largely in the service of the memory itself .
and that &apos;s a little hard to justify , i think .
i mean , how much do we eat from our memories ?
this is a people who are not cognitively different from the color blue and green , because the celestial scene is the forest upon which people depend .
what could be better ? &quot; damn &quot; the man thinks , &quot; it &apos;s august .
this is one of the explanations that is given to the dominance of the memory itself .
and when i think about it , i think of a vacation that we did a few years ago in antarctica , which was clearly the best vacation i had ever had , and i think quite often about how often i think of other vacations .
and i &apos;ve probably consumed my memories of this three-week journey , i would say , for about 25 minutes in the last four years .
now , if i had ever opened the folder with the 600 pictures in it , i would have spent another hour .
well , that &apos;s three weeks , and that &apos;s at least one and a half hours .
there seems to be a disagreement .
now , i may be a little extreme , you know , in how little appetite i have on the ceding of memories , but even if you make more of them , there &apos;s a real question . why do we give memories so much weight in the weight that we give experiences ?
so i want you to think about a thought experiment .
imagine your next vacation , you know , at the end of the vacation , all your images are devastated , and you get an amnesiac drug , so you won &apos;t remember anything .
now , would you choose the same vacation ?
everybody in my manhattan neighborhood is gone .
and if you chose another vacation , there &apos;s a conflict between your two kinds of self , and you have to think about how you decide this conflict , and that &apos;s really not obvious at all , because if you think in the sense of time , you get an answer . and if you think in the sense of memories , you could get a different answer .
why we choose the vacation that we choose is a problem that we face with a choice between the two types of self .
well , the two types of self are two terms of happiness .
there are actually two concepts of happiness that we can apply , one per self .
so you can ask : how happy is the living self ?
and then you would ask : how happy are the moments in the life of the living self ?
and they &apos;re all -- happiness for a moment is a pretty complicated process .
what are the emotions that can be measured ?
and , by the way , we are now able to get a pretty good idea of the happiness of the living self over time .
if you ask for the happiness of the memory self , it &apos;s a very different thing .
i could park right in front of my house . &quot;
that &apos;s not about how happy a person lives .
it &apos;s about how happy or delighted the person is when that person thinks about their lives .
very different term .
anyone who doesn &apos;t distinguish these terms is going to mess up the study of happiness , and i &apos;m part of a lot of researchers on well-being who have been messing up the study of happiness in exactly that way .
the distinction between the happiness of the living self and the happiness of the memory self has been recognized in the last few years , and now you &apos;re trying to measure the two separate .
the gallup organization has a global poll where more than half a million people have been asked about what they think about their lives and their experiences , and there were other efforts in the direction .
so in the last few years , we &apos;ve started to learn about the happiness of both kinds of self .
and the main lesson that we &apos;ve learned , i think , is that they &apos;re really different .
you can know how happy someone is with their life , and that really doesn &apos;t teach you much about how happy they live and vice versa .
just to give you a sense of the correlation , the correlation is about .5 .
and he spends two weeks from the thought that he has missed the opportunity to have a great parking lot day after day .
what that means is that if you met someone , and you would tell them , oh , his father is a two-meter man , how much would you know about his size ?
well , you would know something about its size , but there &apos;s a lot of uncertainty .
they have so much uncertainty .
if i tell you that somebody has arranged their life as eight on a scale of 10 , you have a lot of uncertainty about how happy he is with his living self .
so the correlation is low .
we know a little bit about what determines the happiness of happiness itself .
we know money is very important , goals are very important .
we know that happiness is mainly about being satisfied with people we like to spend time with people we like .
there are other pleasures , but that &apos;s dominant .
so if you want to maximize happiness of the two types of self , you &apos;re going to end up doing very different things .
oppertunity costs reduce the happiness that we get from our choice , even though what we chose is fantastic .
the implication of what i &apos;ve said here is that we really shouldn &apos;t think of happiness as a replacement of well-being .
it &apos;s a completely different term .
now , very briefly , another reason that we can &apos;t really think about happiness is that we don &apos;t pay attention to the same things when we think about life and when we actually live .
so if you ask the simple question of how happy people in california are , you &apos;re not going to get the right answer .
if you ask that question , you think that people in california have to be happier when they live in ohio , say .
and what happens is that when you think about life in california , you think about the difference between california and other places , and that difference is , say , in climate .
well , it turns out that climate isn &apos;t very important for the living self , and it &apos;s not even very important for the thoughtful self that decides how happy people are .
well , because the thoughtful self is responsible , you can end up -- some people could end up moving to california .
and it &apos;s kind of interesting to track what happens to people who move to california , hoping to be happier .
well , your living self is not going to be happier .
and the more possibilities there are to select , the more attractive properties of these choices are taken into the oppersian costs .
we know that .
but one thing will happen . you &apos;ll think you &apos;re happier , because if you think about it , you &apos;ll be reminded of how awful the weather was in ohio , and you &apos;ll feel that you made the right decision .
it &apos;s very hard to think clearly about well-being , and i hope i &apos;ve given you a sense of how hard it is .
thank you .
thank you . i have a question for you .
thank you .
now , when we were talking about phone a couple of weeks ago , they were telling me that there was a pretty interesting result that came out of this gallup poll .
is this something you can participate in , because you have a few minutes left now ?
daniel kahneman : sure .
i think the most interesting thing we found in the gallup poll is a number that we absolutely didn &apos;t expect to find .
here &apos;s another example .
we found that in terms of the happiness of the living self .
when we looked at how emotion varies with income .
and it turns out that , under an income of 60,000 dollars a year , for americans , and this is a very large sample of americans , about 600,000 , but it &apos;s a huge representative sample , under an income of 600,000 dollars a year .
60,000 .
dk : 60,000 .
60,000 dollars a year , people are unhappy , and they become increasingly unhappy , the poorer they get .
and we get an absolutely flat line on that .
i mean , i rarely saw flat lines .
what happens is obviously that money doesn &apos;t give you an experience happiness , but that lack of money certainly makes you miserable , and we can measure that misery very , very clearly .
in the sense of the other self , the remembering self , you get a different story .
now , this cartoon makes some statements .
the more money you make , the happier you are .
that &apos;s not true of emotions .
but danny , the entire american aspiration is about life , freedom , the pursuit of happiness .
if people were to take this fund seriously , i mean , it seems to put everything on their head , everything we think , for example , in terms of tax policy and so on .
is there a chance that politicians would take the country in general a finance like this and do it based on politics ?
dk : you know , i think there &apos;s recognition for the role of happiness research in politics .
recognition is going to be slow in the united states , not a question , but in the united kingdom it &apos;s happening right now , and in other countries , it &apos;s happening .
people are recognizing that they should think about happiness when they think about politics .
it &apos;s going to take a while , and people will discuss whether they want to explore experience happiness , or whether they want to explore life grades , so we have to have this discussion pretty soon .
how to increase happiness is very different from how you think and whether you think about the remembering self or whether you think about the living self .
he makes a statement about living in the now , and maybe doing things slowly .
that &apos;s going to affect politics , i think , in the years to come .
in the united states , you &apos;re struggling to measure the experience happiness of the population .
this is going to be part of the national statistics , i think , in the next decade or two .
well , it seems to me that this topic , or should at least be the most interesting political debate to pursue over the next few years .
thank you very much for the invention of behavioral economics .
thank you , danny kahneman .
i &apos;m jane mcgonigal . i design computer games .
i &apos;ve been developing online games for 10 years now , and my goal for the next decade is to make it as easy to save the world in reality as to save it in online games .
i have a plan for this . i want to convince more people , including all of you , to spend more time playing bigger and more great games .
we &apos;re currently spending three billion hours a week playing online games .
but one important point he makes is always who you choose to do one thing , you don &apos;t choose to do other things .
some of you may think , &quot; that &apos;s a lot of time for games . &quot;
maybe a little too much time when you think about how many problems do we have to solve in the real world .
but in fact , following my research at the institute for the future is exactly the opposite .
three billion hours a week is not nearly enough to solve the world &apos;s most urgent problems .
in fact , i &apos;m convinced that if we want to survive the next century on this planet , we have to dramatically increase that time .
i calculated that it took the time to play at 21 billion hours a week .
this may seem a little bit disgusting , so i repeat it so that it can work : if we want to solve problems like hunger , poverty , climate change , global conflict and obesity , i think we need to try to play games online for at least 21 billion hours a week to the end of the next decade .
no , i mean it really seriously .
why ? this picture pretty much describes why i think games are so critical to the survival of the human species in the future . seriously .
this is a portrait of the photographer phil toledano .
they have a strange language and a marriage prescription called linguistic exogamy : you have to marry somebody who speaks another language .
and these other things may have a lot of attractive properties , and it becomes what they &apos;re going to do less attractive .
he wanted to capture the feelings when he played , so he built a camera in front of the players .
this is one of the classical expressions of play .
if you &apos;re not a player , you might get some of the nuances in this picture .
you probably see this sense of urgency , a little bit of fear , but also external concentration , deeply immersed in solving a really difficult problem .
if you &apos;re also playing , you see some nuances here that are zoomed up , and the mouth is a sign of optimism , and the eyebrows show surprise .
this is a player standing on the edge of something called an epic victory .
oh , you know that . ok . all right . so we have some players here .
an epic victory is a result that is so super-positive that they didn &apos;t even know it was possible at all .
it was almost beyond the imagination .
and when you get to it , you &apos;re shocked that you &apos;re actually capable of something like this . that &apos;s an epic victory .
third , escalation of expectations .
this player is about to be an epic victory .
and this is what we need to see on millions of faces of problem-solvers around the world , when we &apos;re attacking the barriers of the next century , the face of those who are opposed to all the vities on the edge of an epic victory .
well , unfortunately , we &apos;re more likely to see this face in real life when we face difficult problems .
i call it the &quot; i &apos;m bad &quot; face in life . and it &apos;s actually my face , right ? ok .
that &apos;s me making the &quot; in life i &apos;m bad &quot; face .
this is a graffiti in my former home in berkeley , california , where i studied in my ph.d. why we are better in games than in real life .
this is a problem that many players have .
we think in reality , we &apos;re not as good as we are in games .
and i don &apos;t just mean less successfully , even though that &apos;s part of it .
we &apos;re doing more in game worlds . i mean well in relation to motivation to do something significant , inspired to collaborate with each other .
this struck me when i wanted to exchange my jeans .
when we &apos;re in a game world , i believe that many of us are turning into our best version , anytime and instantly helpful , to try to solve the problem , as long as it takes , to try again after the failure .
and in reality , when we fail , when we hit obstacles , we often feel different .
we feel overwhelmed . we feel defeated . we feel threatened , maybe depressed , frustrated or cynical .
we never have these feelings when we play games , in games , they just don &apos;t exist .
and that &apos;s what i wanted to study as a ph.d. student .
why is it impossible in games to think that you couldn &apos;t just do it all ?
how can we translate these feelings into reality from the games ?
so i looked at games like the world of warcraft , which is the ideal environment for collaborative problem solving .
and i &apos;ve found some things that make the epic victories in online worlds so possible .
so , first of all , when you get into one of these online games , especially at the world of warcraft , there are a lot of different characters who are willing to trust you a global mission , right away .
i &apos;m wearing jeans , almost all the time .
but not just any mission , but a mission that fits perfectly to your current level in the game , right ?
so you can do that .
you never get a task that you can &apos;t solve .
but always at the edge of their ability , so they have to struggle , but there is no unemployment in the world of warcraft .
you don &apos;t sit around and turn around . there &apos;s always something important to do .
and there &apos;s plenty of collaborators .
wherever you go , hundreds of thousands of people working with you to finish your epic mission .
we don &apos;t have that easy in real life , that feeling that , if you have a fingertip , people are ready .
there &apos;s also this epic story , this inspiring story of why we are there and what we have to do .
then we get this whole positive feedback .
and there was a time when there was only one kind of jeans , and they bought them , and they were badly adapted , they were incredibly uncomfortable , and if they were wearing them long enough and often washing enough , they started to feel &quot; ok . &quot;
you &apos;ve heard about &quot; high &quot; and &quot; + 1 strength , &quot; or &quot; + 1 intelligence . &quot;
this constant feedback is not in real life .
when i leave this stage , i don &apos;t have plus-one , and + 1 crazy idea , + 20 crazy ideas .
i don &apos;t get this feedback in real life .
so , the problem of cooperative online worlds like the world of warcraft is that it &apos;s so satisfying to stand on the edge of an epic victory at any time that we &apos;d rather spend all our time in these game worlds .
they &apos;re just better than reality .
to this day , all the world of warcraft players together have spent 5.93 million years solving the virtual problems of azeroth .
that &apos;s not necessarily a bad thing .
it may sound bad .
but to see it in context , 5.93 million years ago , our first primate ancestors started to go upright .
so to buy new jeans after many years of old age &apos;s tragic , and i said , &quot; i &apos;d like to have a couple of jeans , here &apos;s my size . &quot;
so the first exciting primate .
ok , so when we talk about how much time we spend playing games right now , it just makes sense when you think about time in terms of the scale of human development , which is extraordinary .
but also , because it turns out that by using all this time on play , we &apos;re actually changing what we &apos;re capable of as human beings .
we &apos;re developing to collaborative , heartfelt creatures .
that &apos;s the truth . that &apos;s what i believe .
if you look at this interesting statistic recently published by a researcher at carnegie mellon university , the average young person today in a playful culture spends 10,000 hours with online games up to the 21st year of life .
so , 10,000 hours is a very interesting number for two reasons .
first of all , for kids in the united states , 10.080 hours is the exact total that they spend in school , from fifth grade to high school -- if you never miss .
so here we have a complete parallel education where young people are learning the same thing that it means to be a good player , like anything else that they &apos;re learning at school .
and maybe some of you have read the new book by malcolm gladwell , &quot; flying over . &quot;
and the salesman said , &quot; do you want slank , easy or wide ?
so you know his theory of success , the theory of success of 10,000 hours .
it &apos;s based on the great research of cognitive science , that if we spend 10,000 hours studying a tired subject to the 21st year , we become masters in it .
we &apos;re getting so good at doing whatever it is that the most important people in the world are .
so what we have here is a whole generation of young people who are master-players .
so the big question is , &quot; what exactly are players masterically good at ? &quot;
because if we could figure that out , we would have , in fact , never before available human potential .
so many people now in the world who spend at least an hour a day playing online games .
these are our master players . 500 million people who are extraordinarily good at something .
and in the next decade , we have another billion players who are extraordinarily good at whatever .
if you haven &apos;t heard it yet .
do you want buttons or fantasy ? stone or acid washed ?
the game industry develops consoles that save energy and work on mobile networks , instead of the broadband internet , so players around the world , especially in india , china , brazil , can play online .
you expect an extra billion players in the next decade .
so we have 1.5 billion players in total .
so i started thinking about what it is that these games make us master .
here are the four things i found . first of all , dringness optimism .
ok , think of this as extreme self-motivation .
dringness optimism is the desire to do something immediately , to master a barrier , with the belief that we have a grounded hope for success .
players always believe that an epic victory is possible , and that it &apos;s always worth trying , and it &apos;s the same .
players don &apos;t sit around .
players are masters in the spiders of dense social nets .
do you want to make jeans with holes ?
there &apos;s a lot of interesting studies that show that we like people more after we &apos;ve played with them , even when they defeat us .
the reason is that it requires a lot of trust to play a game with somebody .
we trust that somebody spends time with us , that the rules are held , that we have the same goal and we stay there until the end of the game .
so the interplay allows the growing of bonds , trust and each other .
as a result , we build stronger social relationships .
happy productivity . fantastic !
you know , there &apos;s a reason why the average word of warcraft player plays 22 hours a week , sort of as a part-time job .
the reason is that when we play , we &apos;re actually happier at working hard than when we relax or do nothing .
we know that as human beings , we work optimally when we do hard , meaningful work .
and players are always ready to work hard when they get the right task .
do you want to cut far down , cookie , blah , blah , blah ... &quot; and so on , he said .
and finally , epic meaning .
players love to become part of the awe missions of planetary extent .
here &apos;s a backbone formation to put that in perspective . you know wikipedia , the largest wiki in the world .
the second largest wiki in the world , with almost 80,000 entries , is the world of warcraft wiki .
five million people use it every month .
they &apos;ve collected more information about the world of warcraft on the internet than about any other topic in every other wiki in the world .
they create an epic story .
they create an epic source of knowledge about the world of warcraft .
ok , so these are four superpowers that lead to a single outcome . players are super-powerful , hopeful individuals .
it &apos;s people who believe that they can change the world as individuals .
all of this is rooted in the mythological past , and the strange thing about these big houses , where , because of the mischehen , six or seven languages , is that you never hear anyone who learns a language .
my jaw was down , and after i recovered , i said , &quot; i &apos;d like to have the kind that used to be the only species . &quot;
and the only problem is that you think you can change the virtual worlds , but not the real world .
that &apos;s the problem i &apos;m trying to solve .
edward castronova is a economist .
his work is brilliant . he studies why people spend so much time , energy and money in online worlds .
and he says , &quot; we &apos;re not going to witness less than a mass migration in virtual worlds and online game environments . &quot;
and this is from an economist . so he &apos;s logical .
and he says ...
not like me -- i &apos;m developing games , i &apos;m a little bit overwhelming .
so he says this actually makes sense , because players can achieve more in online worlds than in real life .
they can tap into games of stronger social ties than in real life . they get more feedback and rewards in games than in real life .
he had no idea what that was , so i spent an hour trying all these damn jeans , and he left the business -- and i say the truth -- with the best passenger jeans i &apos;ve ever had .
so , he says it &apos;s perfectly logical right now that players spend more time in the virtual world than in the real world .
i &apos;ll just agree , that &apos;s logical .
but it &apos;s definitely not an optimal situation .
we need to start turning the real world into a game .
my inspiration comes from an event that &apos;s 2,500 years ago .
there are these ancient cubes made out of sheep caps . you know ?
before these fantastic game controllers , there were sheep caps .
and these were sort of the first of human beings developed toys .
and if you &apos;re familiar with the works of ancient greek historian herodotus , you may know this story . the story of how and why games were invented .
according to herodotus , games , precise cubes , were invented in the kingdom of lydia during famine .
i had better . i had all this choice that allowed me to have it better .
there was such a great famine that the king of lydies decided to be a crazy idea .
people suffered . people fought .
it was an extreme situation . you needed an extreme solution .
so they invented , according to herodotus , the game of the box , and they agreed a national strategy . on one day , you would eat . the next day you would play .
and they would be so deeply immersed in the box game , because games are so fascinating and surrounding us with satisfying , happy productivity that they would forget that there was nothing to eat .
and then the next day you would play , and the next day you would eat .
and according to herodotus , they survived this famine for 18 years by eating and playing the next day .
in the same way , i think , we &apos;re going to use games today .
we use games to escape the suffering of the real world .
we use games to avoid everything that doesn &apos;t work in the real world , everything that &apos;s not satisfying in real life , and we get what we need out of play .
but i felt worse .
but that doesn &apos;t have to be the end .
that &apos;s the exciting thing .
according to herodotus , after 18 years , the famine didn &apos;t get any better , so the king decided to use a final cube game .
they divided the kingdom into two halves .
they played a cube game , and the victories were allowed to break up to an epic adventure .
they left poetry and they went looking for a new home , and they left as many people as there were food to survive , and they were looking for the rest of an area where they could thrive .
it sounds crazy , right ?
but the latest dna evidence shows that the etruskers who later formed the roman empire have the same dna as the old lydians .
so scientists recently came to think that herodotus &apos; crazy story was actually true .
and geologists found evidence of a global cooling that took almost 20 years to explain famine .
why ? i wrote a whole book to try and explain it to myself .
so this crazy story could be true .
maybe they actually rescued their people by playing , by flipping into games for 18 years , and then having this inflammation and learning so much about playing with each other that they saved the whole civilization .
so , we can do that .
we &apos;ve been playing warcraft since 1994 .
this was the first strategy game in real time of the world of warcraft series . this was 16 years ago .
they played cube games for 18 years , we &apos;ve been playing warcraft for 16 years .
i &apos;m saying we &apos;re ready for our own epic game .
so , they sent half of their civilization to look for a new world , so i take my 21 billion game hours a week .
we should survive that half of us spend an hour a day playing games until we solve the real world &apos;s problems .
i know you &apos;re going to ask , &quot; how do we solve problems of the real world in games ? &quot; and that &apos;s the question that i &apos;ve dedicated my work to the institute for the future in the last few years ?
the reason i felt worse was because of all these available possibilities , my expectations of what makes up a good couple of jeans , went up .
we have this banner in our office in palo alto , and it expresses how we should understand the future .
we don &apos;t want to try and say the future before .
what we want is to create the future .
we want to think of the best possible outcome , and then empower people to put this idea into reality .
we imagine epic victories , and we give people the opportunity to reach them .
i &apos;m going to show you very briefly three games that i &apos;ve designed to try and create the epic victory of people in their own future .
this is &quot; world without oil . &quot;
the game is from 2007 .
it &apos;s an online game where you have to overcome an oil scarcity .
i had very low expectations . i had no concrete expectations when they were only in one way .
we &apos;ve tested this game with 1,700 players in 2007 , and we &apos;ve been accompaniing them for the last three years .
and i can tell you , it was a transformative experience .
nobody wants to change their life because it &apos;s good for the environment or because we should .
but if you &apos;re in an epic adventure and you &apos;re told , &quot; we &apos;re going to run the oil . &quot;
this is a fascinating adventure you go to .
find out how they would survive . most of our players have maintained the habits in the game .
so for the next world-class game , we &apos;ve set up a bigger , higher goal than just oil scarcity .
we &apos;ve developed the game &quot; superstruct &quot; at the institute of the future .
the starting point is the calculation of a supercomputer that people only have 23 years left on the planet .
this supercomputer is called the global mortality sensitivity system , of course .
when they came in 100 species , damn , one of them should have been perfect .
the call to players to sign up , we &apos;ve created almost like a &quot; jerry bruckheimer . &quot;
you know jerry bruckheimer movies , where the dream-team is , you have the astronaut , the scientist , the ex-beach , and only together can you save the world .
but in our game , instead of just five people , let &apos;s say everybody is in the dream team , and it &apos;s our job to create the future for energy , food , health , security and the future of social justice .
8,000 players played the game for eight weeks .
they found 500 incredibly creative solutions that you can read when you google &quot; superstruct . &quot;
and the last game we bring out on march 3 , which is a game in collaboration with the world bank .
when you close the game , from the world bank , you get the award of social transformation , graduation in 2010 .
we &apos;re working with universities all over sub-saharan africa , and we &apos;re inviting them to learn how to redesign social .
we have a comic book on this . we have &quot; level up &quot; for regional understanding , knowledge connectivity , sustainability , vision and ingenuity .
i &apos;d like to invite you all to share this game with young people all over the world , especially in developing areas that benefit from imagining their own social enterprises to save the world .
and what i got was good , but it wasn &apos;t perfect .
i &apos;m going to end now .
i want to ask you something .
what do you think happens next ?
we have all these fantastic players , we have games that show us what we can do , but we haven &apos;t saved the real world yet .
well , i hope you &apos;ll agree that players are human resources that we can use to work in real life , and that games have a great meaning for change .
we have all these superpowers , serendipitous productivity , the ability to make tight social networks , dringness optimism and the desire for epic significance .
i really hope that we play important games together to survive another century on this planet .
and i hope you &apos;ll design and play with me like this .
when i look forward in the next decade , i &apos;m sure in two things : that we can create any imaginable future , and that we can play all kinds of games .
so i say , let the world changing games start !
and so i compared what i had gotten to what i was expecting , and what i had was disappointing compared to what i expected .
thank you .
i &apos;d like to tell you something that i noticed a few months ago writing an article for italian wired .
i &apos;ve always reached my synonymous dictionary in writing , but i &apos;ve done the work of the text , and i realized that i &apos;ve never looked up in my life what the word &quot; disabled &quot; really means .
i &apos;m going to read you the post .
&quot; disabled , &quot; adjective : &quot; crippled , helpless , useless , destroyed , deceased , mutilated , disabled , stored , disconnected , disconnected , served , smoked , impotent , castled , paralyzed , handicapt senil , old age weak , pulled out of traffic , restored , done , broken , injured , useless and weak .
antonym : healthy , strong , powerful . &quot;
i read this list to a friend , and i had to laugh for the first time , it was so ridiculous , but i only came up to &quot; aligned &quot; and i couldn &apos;t talk , and i had to stop reading and collect myself after this overlapping wordscape and the associated emotional shock .
and of course , this was a great old synonymous dictionary , and i just thought that the copy must be pretty old .
but in fact , it was a copy of the early &apos; 80s when i was starting elementary school and started to build and form my own image outside my family sphere , also in terms of other children and the rest of the world around me .
and thank god , i didn &apos;t use a synonymous dictionary at the time .
you just listen and then you start talking .
adding opportunities to people &apos;s lives is inevitably increasing the expectations that people have about how well these possibilities are going to be .
if i took this post seriously , i would be born into a world that someone like me would perceive as a person whose life can &apos;t be positive in any way , but today i &apos;m going to celebrate for the opportunity and adventure i &apos;ve experienced .
so i immediately called myself up the online edition of 2009 , and i expected to find a more appealing contribution here .
here &apos;s the updated version of this contract .
unfortunately , it &apos;s not much better .
in particular , the last two words are shaking me under &quot; near antonym &quot; all &quot; and &quot; healthy . &quot;
but it &apos;s not just about the words .
it &apos;s about what we think about the people we describe with these words .
it &apos;s about the values that are in these words , and how we construct these values .
our language affects our thinking and how we see the world and the people around us .
a lot of ancient societies , including the greeks and the roman , really believed that the language of an escape has a great force , because what you say out loud can also manifest .
and this leads to less satisfaction with the results , even though the results are good .
so , what do we really want to manifest -- a disabled person or a powerful person ?
even calling a human being mindless as a child , could be enough to restrict them and give them ideas .
wouldn &apos;t it be more beautiful to open your doors ?
a person who opened doors to me was my pediatrician at a.i. dupont institute in wilmington .
it &apos;s called dr. pizzutillo . it &apos;s an italo american whose name , as you can imagine , most americans couldn &apos;t speak correctly , so he was always called dr. p.
and dr. p. always wore very colorful flies and was just created for the work with kids .
i found the time i spent in this hospital , just great -- except for my physical therapy .
i had to do individual exercises that seem to be infinitely repeated with these thick , elastic bands -- in different colors -- you know , to build my leg muscles . and i hated these benches more than anything else . i hated them . i flooded them . i hated them .
and imagine i even negotiated with dr. p. as a five-year-old child , and tried to stop these practices , naturally without success .
and one day he saw me in one of my exercises -- these practices were just tiring and graceful -- and he said to me , &quot; wow , aimee , you &apos;re such a strong , powerful and young girl , you &apos;re going to cut one day one of these bands .
nobody in the world of marketing knows this , because if you were to , you wouldn &apos;t know what this is about .
and if you can do it , i &apos;ll give you a hundred dollars . &quot;
this was , of course , just a simple trick by dr. p. , so i &apos;m doing the work that i didn &apos;t want to do with the insight that there were five year-old girls in the hospital in the second floor , but he actually got me to see my daily practice horror with new eyes , and so it became a new and promising experience .
and i wonder today how much his vision of me as a strong and powerful young girl has shaped my self-image , and i could imagine myself as one of nature of strong , powerful and atlethic human beings .
this is just one example of many , how adults in power positions can incentivize the imagination of a child .
but as the examples that have already quoted from the synonymous dictionaries , our language doesn &apos;t allow us to imagine something that we would all wish : to allow each and every one of us to see themselves as powerful people .
our language is driving the social changes that have been triggered in many cases by a technological change .
and of course , from the medical standpoint , you can say that my legs , the laser surgery for visually impaired , knee joints from titan and artificial hip joints for aging bodies that allow people to really use all of their possibilities and the limits that they have set their natural destiny to develop , not to speak of social networking platforms , enable people to make their own identity , to define themselves in their own way , and to orient with groups around the world that they choose themselves .
so maybe this technological change is more clear than ever that there has always been a different truth , which is that every human being can give something special and very powerful to society and that the human ability to adapt is our biggest plus .
the human ability to adapt -- this is an interesting story , because people ask me over and over again to tell me how to deal with vitality , and i &apos;m going to say something to you : this sentence has never adapted for me , and i &apos;ve always felt very uncomfortable with answering people &apos;s questions , and i think i understand why .
this phrase of dealing with vitality lives on the idea that success or happiness depends on solving a challenge without being shaped by the experience of it , as if my life had been so successful , because i could eradicate the possible fall of a life with a prosthetic prosthetic , or whatever people can perceive me with my disability .
the truth is more like this .
but the truth is that we change . of course , we are shaped by the challenge , whether it &apos;s physical or emotional or even both .
and i &apos;m saying that &apos;s good .
there &apos;s no obstacle that we need to make curves to get better with our lives .
wishes are simply among our lives .
and i tend to think of vitality as my shadow .
sometimes i realize that he &apos;s very present , sometimes he &apos;s hardly seen , but he &apos;s constantly with me .
and i don &apos;t want to make the impact , or the severe of the fight of a human .
there are wishes and challenges in life , and they &apos;re just too real , and each person is doing it differently , but the question is not whether we can deal with wishes or not , but how we deal with it .
so not only are we responsible for preserving the people we love from fate strikes , but also preparing them for getting good with it .
and we don &apos;t like our kids when we make them feel like they can &apos;t adapt .
the reason is that it used to be better than anything worse than anything was worse , it was possible for people to have experiences that were a pleasant surprise .
you have to separate two things clearly : one , the medical fact of being amputated and one , the social opinion about whether i &apos;m disabled or not .
and to be honest , the only real and remaining disability that i had to deal with is that the world is constantly meant that it could describe me with these definitions .
in our desire to protect the people who care about the heart and tell them the cold , hard truth about their medical projections , or even provide a forecast on the quality of life that she expects , we have to pay attention to the fact that we don &apos;t actually lay the ground for someone to be disabled .
maybe the current concept that &apos;s just paying attention to what &apos;s in a broken , and how we fix that , for each one , is a greater disability than the pathology itself .
if we don &apos;t fully treat a human being , and we don &apos;t perceive and perceive all its forces and possibilities , in addition to the natural struggle that you might have to lead , we &apos;re going to create another disease .
we degrade a person who has value for our society .
so we have to look beyond the patology and focus on all the human possibilities .
but most importantly , there is a connection between the perception of our inadequacy and our great ingenuity .
we should not devalue or deny these challenging times , we should not try to avoid them , nor should we turn them under the carpet , but it &apos;s about recognizing the odds in the vitality .
i think i &apos;m more likely to be sure that we don &apos;t necessarily have to overcome adversity , but that we &apos;re open to embrace it , to grab it at the opf , to use a fight expression and maybe even dance with it .
today , in the world that we live in -- we wealthy , industrialized citizens , with perfection as an expectation -- the best thing you can ever hope for is things as good as you expect them .
and maybe we &apos;re able to think of wistness as something natural , coherent and useful , and we don &apos;t feel so upset by their presence .
this year , we celebrate the 200th birthday of charles darwin , and when he wrote about evolution 150 years ago , darwin , in my eyes , pointed out something very true in the human character .
i would rewrite it this way : not the strongest of its kind , and not the most intelligent of its kind , but the one that can best adapt to change .
conflicts emerge creativity .
it &apos;s not just from darwin &apos;s work that we know that human ability to survive and flourish , is determined by the struggle of the human mind , to transform through conflict .
so , again , change and adaptation are the greatest skills of man .
and maybe we don &apos;t know what wood we &apos;re cut from when we &apos;re really tested .
maybe that &apos;s exactly the sense of vitality , the perception of the icon , the sense of our own power .
we can give ourselves something like this .
we can give vitality a new meaning that goes beyond severe times .
they &apos;ll never be pleased , because their expectations , my expectations , are high .
maybe we can see vitality as change .
it &apos;s a change that we haven &apos;t adapted to yet .
i think the biggest damage we &apos;ve added to ourselves is to believe that we should be normal .
let &apos;s face it -- who &apos;s normal ?
there &apos;s no normal .
there &apos;s the usual one . the typical one . but not the normal one , and would you really want to know this poor , gray person if there really was you ?
i don &apos;t think so .
it would be great if we could exchange this paradigm of normality against another one of the possibilities or strength to make it a little bit more dangerous , so we can release the forces of very many children , and invite them to bring their very special and valuable skills into society .
anthropolgens have found that we &apos;ve always asked people about the members of our society to be useful and contribute .
there &apos;s evidence that the neanderthals , 60,000 years ago , had older people and people with severe physical injuries , and that may have happened because the life experience of these people was valuable for society .
the secret to happiness -- that &apos;s what you &apos;ve all come to -- the secret to happiness is low expectations .
they didn &apos;t think of these people as broken and useless ; they were treated as something special and valuable .
a few years ago , i went to the city where i grew up to a food market in that red zone in the northeast of pennsylvania , and i was standing there in front of a scheffel tomato .
it was summer , and i had shorts on .
and i hear a guy behind me saying , &quot; well , if that &apos;s not aimee mullins . &quot;
and i turn around and i see this older man . i had no idea who he was .
and i said , &quot; excuse me , sir , we know ? i can &apos;t remember you . &quot;
and he said , &quot; well , you can &apos;t remember me .
when i first saw her , i took her out of her mother &apos;s belly . &quot;
oh , so that &apos;s it .
and of course , it made click .
i want to say -- a short autobiographical moment -- that i &apos;m married to a woman , and she &apos;s really wonderful .
this was dr. kean , a man who i only knew from narratives of my mother about this day , because , of course , i came to late two weeks to my birthday .
my mother &apos;s prenatal diagnostic was on vacation , and so my parents did not know the man who brought me to the world .
and because i was born without orbital legs , and my feet had been focused on them , and i only had a few toes on this one and a few toes on the other foot , he was the overhead , this stranger had to get the bad news over .
he said to me , &quot; i had to tell your parents that you would never walk , and you would never be as moving as other kids , or that you could never live an independent life , and since then they just punished me lies . &quot;
really extraordinary , i found that he &apos;d collected newspaper clips of my entire childhood , whether i &apos;d won a letter competition in the second grade , whether i &apos;d been on the side of the parade , whether i had my scholarship or one of my athletic victories , and he &apos;d been using these clips to teach his students , medical students from the hahnemann medical school and the hershey medical school .
and he called this part of his class the x factor , the potential of the human will .
you just can &apos;t emphasize enough how important this factor can be to the quality of life of a human being .
and dr. kean said , he said , &quot; i &apos;ve learned that kids , if they don &apos;t get something else said all the time , and even if they get a little help , if you leave children to themselves , then children can do a lot . &quot;
you see , dr. kean has changed his mind .
he understood that medical diagnosis , and how someone &apos;s dealing with it , are two different things .
i couldn &apos;t have done better . i didn &apos;t let myself down .
and i also changed my thinking over the course of time , if you had asked me at the age of 15 if i had swapped my prosthetics against legs of meat and bones , i wouldn &apos;t have hesitated for a second .
i really wanted to be normal at the time .
if you ask me today , i &apos;m not so sure .
and that &apos;s because i &apos;ve experienced something with my legs and not despite these experiences .
and perhaps that change could happen , because i &apos;ve encountered so many people who have opened doors to me , rather than meeting people who would restrict me or give me an idea .
you see , it really takes only one person to demonstrate to you how you can manifest your forces , and you &apos;re through .
if you allow someone to activate their own internal forces -- the human mind is so receptive -- if you can do that , and open a door for someone in a critical moment , you &apos;re a very good teacher for these people .
they teach them to open themselves doors .
the real meaning of the word &quot; educate &quot; is in the word &quot; educe . &quot;
it means making something that in one is to tickle the potential out .
or , one of the most fascinating tribes i &apos;ve ever lived with , the waorani in the northeast of ecuador , an amazing people who was first contacted peacefully in 1958 .
but leaving is not always such a bad thing .
again , what kind of potential do we want to call ?
in the &apos; 60s , a case study was done in the u.k. , and then gymnasia was transformed into total schools .
they call this &quot; streaming trials &quot; in the united states , we call this &quot; tracking . &quot;
students are divided after grades .
and the a students get harder to test , get the better teachers and so on .
they then , over a three-month period , had students with a &quot; enough &quot; the note &quot; very well , and they were told that they were very smart , and after those three months , they really wrote one .
and of course , it breaks your heart to hear that conversely , the one-student was told they were just sufficient .
and it was the same after the three months .
but only those who were still in school -- aside from the students who had failed school .
and the key thing about this study was that the teachers had not been denied .
finally , a consequence of buying a bad seat of jeans if there &apos;s only one way to buy is that if you &apos;re unhappy , and you wonder why , who is responsible , the answer is clear . the world is responsible . what could you have done ?
the teachers didn &apos;t know that something was changed .
they were just told that they were the one student , and the students are sufficient with the note , and the same thing is that they taught them and treated them .
the only real disability is a broken mind that has been broken , has no more hope . it doesn &apos;t find anything beautiful . it lacks our natural , childhood curiosity , and our innate ability of imagination .
but if we can continue to support the human mind , to continue to hope for ourselves and other people around us , to be curious and imaginative , then we really empower our forces .
if a mind has these qualities , we can create a new reality and a new form of being .
i want to end with a poem written by a persian poet called hafiz in the 14th century , and that my friend jacques dembois told me about . and the poem is called &quot; the god who only knows four words . &quot; every child knows god , not the god of the name , not the god of the boats , but the god who only knows four words and repeats them all the time , he always says , &quot; come on dance with me . &quot;
come on , dance with me . thank you .
how would you want to be better than you are right now ?
suppose i said that , through a few changes in your genes , you could have a better memory -- more precise , more precise and faster .
or do you want to be fitter , stronger , have more power .
if hundreds of different kinds of jeans are available , and you buy one that &apos;s disappointing , and you ask why , who &apos;s responsible ?
do you want to be more attractive and more confident ?
what would it be like to live longer in good health ?
or maybe you &apos;re one of those who &apos;s been looking for more and more creativity .
which one would you like the most ?
which one would you like to have if it could only have one ?
creativity .
how many people would choose creativity ?
raise your hands . let me see .
a couple . probably about as many as there are creative people here .
that &apos;s very good .
it &apos;s also as clear that the answer to the question is : it is .
how many would choose to have a good memory ?
a few more .
how about fitness ?
a few less .
what about longevity ?
ah , the majority . i like to see that as a doctor .
if you could only have one of them , it would be a very different world .
is this all just education ?
or is it possible ?
evolution has been a continuous topic here at the ted conference , but today i want to give you a view of a doctor &apos;s theme .
they could have done better .
the great geneticist in the 20th century , t.g. dobzhansky , who was also a communicator in the russian orthodox church , once wrote a paper called &quot; nothing in biology doesn &apos;t make sense except in the lit of evolution . &quot;
now , if you &apos;re one of those who doesn &apos;t accept the evidence of biological evolution , this would be a very good moment to turn off your hearing device , take your personal communication device -- i &apos;ll give you permission -- and maybe you can look at kathryn schultz &apos;s book , which is to be wrong , because nothing in the course of this talk will make any sense for you .
but if you accept biological evolution , consider this : is it just about the past , or is it about the future ?
is it lacking for others , or is it affecting us ?
this is another view of the tree of life .
in this picture , i &apos;ve put a bush as a center of despair in all directions , because if you look at the edges of the tree of life , all the existing specials at the tips of these branches have succeeded in evolutionary terms : they have survived ; it has demonstrated its environment of fitness and strength .
the human part of this book , far at the end , of course , is what we &apos;re most interested in .
we branch from a common ancestor to modern chimpanzees about six or eight million years ago .
in this period of time , there were perhaps 20 or 25 different species of hominids .
some have come and gone .
with 100 different kinds of jeans in the window , there &apos;s no excuse for mistakes .
we &apos;ve been here for about 130,000 years .
it seems that we are quite remote from the other parts of the tree of life , but actually most of the building , the fundamental mechanisms of our cells are pretty much the same .
do you realize that we can take advantage of it and take the mechanisms of a common bacterium to produce the protein of the human insulin , which is used to treat diabetics ?
this is not like humaninsulin ; this is the same protein that &apos;s chemically undifferentiable from what comes out of the pancreas .
and when we talk about bacteria , do you realize that each of us in our gut is leading more bacteria than it is in the rest of our bodies ?
maybe 10 times as many .
i mean , do you think when antonio damasio asks for your self-image , do you think about the bacteria ?
our gut is a wonderfully hospitable environment for these bacteria .
it &apos;s warm , it &apos;s dark , it &apos;s wet , it &apos;s very comfortable .
and you &apos;re going to give them all the nutrients they just wish for without any effort on their own .
and so when people make decisions , and even though the results of decisions are good , they feel disappointed about it , they accuse themselves .
it &apos;s a really easy way for bacteria , with occasional interruptions of the unintended , jeodch forced to run .
but otherwise , they &apos;re a wonderful environment for these bacteria , just as they &apos;re important for their lives .
they &apos;re helping digestion of essential nutrients , and they &apos;re protecting them against certain diseases .
but what &apos;s going to happen in the future ?
are we in a kind of evolutionary equilibrium in the form of a species ?
or are we meant to be something else -- something that might even be better adapted to the environment ?
now let &apos;s take a step back to the time of the big bang 14 billion years ago -- the earth , the solar system , about four and a half billion years ago -- the first signs of creatures , perhaps three to four billion years ago on earth -- the first multi-cellular organisms , perhaps so much as 800 or a billion years ago -- and then the human species , which eventually forms in the last 130,000 years .
in this vast unfinished symphony of the universe , life on earth is just briefly measured ; the animal kingdom , like a single stroke ; and of human life , a small notation .
that &apos;s us .
this is also the entertainment value of this talk , so i hope you enjoyed it .
clinical depression exploded in the industrial world in the last generation .
now , when i was a neuling in college , i had my first biology class .
i was fascinated by the elegance and beauty of biology .
i fell in love with the power of evolution , and i found something very fundamental : in most of the existence of life in individual organisms , each cell divides , and all the genetic information of the cell is carried on into both daughter cells .
but at the time when multi-cellular organisms emerged , things began to change .
sexual reproduction comes into the picture .
and most importantly , with the introduction of sexual reproduction that the genome passes on , the rest of the body becomes deprived .
in fact , you could say that the inevitability of the death of our body occurs in the same moment as the sexual reproduction .
now i have to say , if i was a college student , i thought , okay , sex / death , sex / death , death for sex -- it seemed pretty reasonable at the time , but with every year , it &apos;s come to my increasing doubt .
i &apos;ve come to understand the feelings of george burns who performed his show in las vegas in the &apos; 90s .
and one night , there &apos;s a knob on his hotel room door .
i believe a significant -- not the only , but a significant contributor to this explosion of depression , and also suicide , is that people have experienced disappointing because their standards are so high , and then , if they have to explain these experiences to themselves , they think it would be their fault .
he opens the door .
there &apos;s a beautiful splendid showgirl in front of him .
she looks at him and says , &quot; i &apos;m here for super-sex . &quot;
&quot; that &apos;s wonderful , &quot; says george , &quot; i &apos;m going to take the soup . &quot;
i came to the realization that i was working on a goal that was different from the goal of evolution -- not necessarily contradictory , just different .
i tried to preserve the body .
i wanted to keep ourselves healthy .
i wanted to restore health after a disease .
i wanted us to live a long and healthy life .
evolution is all about the passing of the genome to the next generation , adaptation and survival generation after generation .
and so the imagery is that we &apos;re doing better generally , objective , and we feel worse .
from an evolutionary standpoint , you and i , like boster rockets , have evolved to send the genetic question to the next level of orbit , and then fall into the sea .
i think we would all understand the mood that woody allen expressed when he said , &quot; i don &apos;t want to get immortality through my work .
i want to do it by not dying . &quot;
evolution doesn &apos;t necessarily mean preferring the longest life .
it doesn &apos;t necessarily prioritize the biggest , the strongest , or the fastest , and not even the smartest .
evolution prioritizes the creatures that are best adapted to their environment .
it &apos;s only the test of survival and success .
on the bottom of the ocean , bacteria are there , which are thermophil , and by doing so , the hot vapor survive , if fish were there , it would have vacuum fish that have cooked , but they &apos;ve managed to make a habitable environment for themselves .
so , what does that mean when we look back at what happens in evolution , and how we think about the place of people in evolution , and particularly how we look ahead into the next phase , i would say that there are a number of possibilities .
the first is that we &apos;re not going to evolve .
in 1957 , five missionary contact tried to make a severe mistake .
so let me remind you .
we &apos;ve reached a kind of balance .
and the reason for this is that , first of all , through medicine , we were able to get a lot of genes that would have been selected otherwise and been removed from the population .
and secondly , we as a species have configured our environment so that we &apos;ve managed to adapt to ourselves , and we adapt to them .
and by the way , we &apos;re wandering and circulating and mixing so much that they can no longer say that isolation is necessary for evolution to find status .
a second possibility is that it will be an evolution of the traditional species , of course , imposed by the forces of nature .
and the argument here is that the wheels of evolution are slowly grinding , but they &apos;re inexhaustible .
and as far as the isolation goes , as we colonize as a species away from planets , there will be isolation and the changes in the environment that evolution could produce in a natural way .
but there is a third possibility , a tempting , fascinating and terrifying possibility .
i call it neo-evolution -- the new development that &apos;s not just natural , but led and decided that we as an individual in the decisions that we make .
now , how could this happen ?
this is the official dogma , which we all think is right , is completely wrong . it &apos;s not true .
how could it be possible that we do that ?
let &apos;s first look at the reality that people today , in some cultures , make decisions about their offspring .
they are , in some cultures , the choice to have more men than women .
it &apos;s not necessarily good for society , but it &apos;s what the individual and the family decide .
so think , if it wasn &apos;t just possible to choose your child &apos;s gender , but also to take genetic adaptations to the body that would heal and prevent disease .
what if you could make the genetic changes to eliminate diabetes or alzheimer &apos;s disease or reduce the risk of cancer or stroke ?
wouldn &apos;t you want to make these changes in your genes ?
if we look ahead , these kinds of changes will be increasingly possible .
the human genome project started in 1990 , and it took 13 years .
it cost 2.7 billion dollars .
there &apos;s no question that a choice is better than none , but it doesn &apos;t follow that more choice is better than something .
the following year , when it was done in 2004 , they could do the same thing for 20 million dollars in the drone to four months .
today , you can complete a sequence of the three billion base pairs of the human genome at a price of about 20,000 and the space of about a week .
it &apos;s not going to take a long time for the reality that there &apos;s going to be the 1,000 dollars of human genomes , and it &apos;s going to be more and more available for everybody .
a week ago , the national academy of engineering gave the draper prize for francis arnold and wild stemmer , two scientists who developed independent techniques that encourage the natural process of evolution to work faster and lead to desirable proteins in a more efficient way -- which frances arnold calls &quot; direct evolution . &quot;
a few years ago , the laser prize was given to the scientist shinya yamanaka for his research , where he took an adult skin cell , a fibroblaste , and by manipulating just four genes that induced cell to return to a pluripotent stem cell -- a cell is potentially able to become any cell in your body .
these changes are coming .
the same technology that the human insulin can produce in bacteria can make viruses that can not only be protected from themselves , but also immunity to other viruses .
whether you believe it or not , it &apos;s an experimental study going on with vaccine versus influenza that &apos;s been grown in the cells of a tobacco plant .
can you imagine something good that comes from tobacco ?
this is all reality today , and in the future , it &apos;s going to be much more possible .
there &apos;s a magical amount . i don &apos;t know what it is .
imagine just two other small changes .
you can change the cells in your body , but what if you could change the cells of your descendants ?
what if you could change the sperm and the ice cells or the newly fertilized egg to give their children a better chance for a healthier life -- elimination of diabetes , eliminating the hemophilia , reducing the risk of cancer ?
who doesn &apos;t want healthier kids ?
and then analytical technology , the same engine of science that can enable the change to prevent disease , could also enable us to adopt super-attributes , hyper-capacity -- the better memory .
why don &apos;t the skill of a ken jennings harbor , especially if you can expand it with the next generation of the watson machine ?
why not have the fast muscle fibers that will allow you to run faster and longer ?
why no longer live ?
these are going to be disgusting .
and if we &apos;re in a place where we can give it to the next generation , and we can adopt the attributes that we want , we &apos;re going to be transformed from alt style evolution to neo-evolution .
i &apos;m pretty sure that we &apos;ve missed this point for a long time in the choice of our common good .
we &apos;re going to have a process that usually requires 100,000 years , and we can compress it to a thousand years -- and maybe even the next 100 years .
these are decisions that your grandchildren , or your grandchildren , have to deal with .
do we use these decisions to form a society that &apos;s better , that &apos;s more successful , that &apos;s more friendly ?
or will we selectively choose different attributes that we want to have for some of us and not for others of us ?
are we going to form a society of thickness and uniformers , or more robust and more complex ?
these are the kinds of questions we need to face .
and the deepest of all , will we ever be able to develop the wisdom and master the wisdom that we will need to make these decisions ?
for good or for evil , and sooner than you may think , these decisions will be to us .
thank you .
i want you to imagine something now , a portable robot that gives you superhuman ability , or another that helps wheelchair users get up and go again .
now , as a basic question -- i &apos;m almost finished -- as a basic question , the thing about thinking -- what all of this choice enables in the industrialized societies is wealth .
we at berkeley bionics call these robots exoskeletons .
they &apos;re not something other than what they &apos;re doing in the morning , and that gives them extra strength , and that will continue to increase their speed , and that will help them keep their balance .
this is actually the real melting of human and machine .
but not only that -- they merge and connect with the universe and other devices out there .
it &apos;s not just a crazy idea .
now to show you what we &apos;re working on , we &apos;re starting to talk about the american soldiers who are carrying about 100 pounds on the average on his back , and it &apos;s the request that they should wear more equipment .
of course , this leads to some major complications -- back injury , 30 percent of them -- chronic spinal injury .
so we thought we would take this challenge and create an exoskeleton that would help deal with this problem .
so let me introduce you to hulc now -- or the human universal load carrier .
soldat : with the hulc exoskeleton , i can carry 200 pounds of different terrain for many hours .
there are many places in the world , and we &apos;ve heard of many of them whose problem is not too big a choice .
his flexible design enables you to go deep , to crawl , and to perform highly agile movements .
it feels what i want to do , where i want to go and then increase my strength and longevity .
we &apos;re so far , with our industrial partner , to introduce this device , this new exoskeleton in this year .
so it &apos;s true .
let &apos;s now take a look at the wheelchair drivers , something that i &apos;m particularly passionate about .
there are 68 million people who are sitting in a wheelchair around the world .
that &apos;s about one percent of the population .
and this is actually a conservative estimate .
we &apos;re often talking about spinal cord injuries young people who have been struck by the flower of their lives -- 20s , &apos; 30s , &apos; 40s -- and the wheelchair is the only option .
but it &apos;s also about the aging population whose number is multiplying .
their problem is that they have too little .
and pretty much the only option -- when it comes to a stroke of the brain , or other complications -- is the wheelchair .
and so , by the way , it &apos;s been 500 years since , i have to say , very successful introduction .
so we thought we could start writing a whole new chapter in mobility .
now let me introduce you to elegs , which is carried by amanda boxtel , who had spinal cord injury 19 years ago , which resulted that she couldn &apos;t walk for 19 years and so far .
thank you .
as i said , amanda is wearing our elephant .
it has sensors .
his completely non-invasive sensors in the crutches that send signals back to our onboarding computer , which is attached to your back .
here are also batteries , the engine drive is on their hips , as well as their knee joints , that move them forward in this very smooth and very natural gangart .
i was 24 years old , and in the best form , when a monstrous purchase tree was paralyzing me during a ski ride .
so the things i &apos;m talking about are a strange problem of modern , rich , western societies .
in the fraction of a second , i lost every feeling and every movement below my basin .
not long after that , a doctor walked into my hospital room and he said , &quot; amanda , you &apos;re never going to be able to go again . &quot;
and that was 19 years ago .
he steals every five hope from my consciousness .
adaptive technologies have allowed me since then to learn how to ski again , climb and even drive with my hands .
but nothing was invented that would let me go again until now .
thank you .
as you can see , we have the technology , we have the platforms to meet and discuss with them .
it &apos;s in our hands , and we have the whole potential here to change the lives of future generations -- not just for the soldiers , or for amanda here and all the wheelchair users , but for everyone .
thank you .
and what &apos;s so frustrating and annoying : steve levitt told you yesterday about how these expensive and hard to install car seats . it &apos;s a waste of money .
at home in new york , i &apos;m the head of the development department of a nonprofit organization called robin hood .
if i don &apos;t fight poverty , i , as a help from a fireman in a volunteer delay , i fight the fire .
now , in our city , volunteers supported a highly skilled professional fire department , you have to be very early on in the fire to be able to mix with you .
i remember my first fire .
i was the second volunteer at the center of the fire , so i had a pretty good chance to be able to go in .
but it was still a race against the other volunteers to reach the chief and figure out what our jobs would be .
when i found the main man , he had a very serious conversation with the owner of the house , who certainly had one of the worst days of her life .
it was in the middle of the night , and she was standing in the stroke and barefoot under a screen out in the flowing rain while her house was standing in flames .
the other volunteer who had just arrived before me -- let &apos;s call him lex luther -- reached the main man first and was asked to go into the house and save the owner &apos;s dog .
the dog ! i was tired of the dog .
they were throwing shiny photos of themselves out of the air , which we would consider friendly gestures , forgetting that these people from the rainforest in their lives had never seen anything two-dimensional .
what i &apos;m telling you is that these expensive , complicated decisions -- it &apos;s not easy that you don &apos;t help .
there was some lawyer or assets manager who could now tell people that he went to a burning house to save a living creature , just because he was five seconds faster than me .
well , i was next .
the main man was waving me .
he said , &quot; bezos , you have to go into the house .
you have to go up , and you have to go by the fire , and this woman has to get a pair of shoes . &quot;
i swear it .
now , not exactly what i had hoped to do , but i went up -- the stairs up , the hallway , past the real &quot; firemen , who were already pretty much finished with the deletion , in the bedroom to get some shoes .
i know what you &apos;re thinking now , but i &apos;m not a hero .
i wore my prey back to the bottom where i met my enemy and the beloved dog on the front door .
we took our estimates out to the owner of the house , where , not surprisingly , he got a lot more attention than mine .
they even hurt .
a few weeks later , the fireguard received a letter from the owner of the house , where she was thanking for the brave use of saving her house .
one about everything that &apos;s been estimated kindness : somebody had actually brought her a pair of shoes .
both in my profession with robin hood and my side profession as a volunteer fireman , i &apos;m witnessing generosity and kindness on a large scale , but i also see the actions of kindness and mutation of individuals .
and you know what i learned ?
they &apos;re all important .
so when i look around this room and i see people who have either reached a remarkable success or are on their way , i want to offer the following memory : don &apos;t wait .
don &apos;t wait to make a difference in someone else &apos;s life until they get their first million .
if you have something to give , now you give it .
use it in a soup kitchen , clean up a park in the neighborhood .
be a mentor .
they make us feel worse about it .
not every day will give us a chance to save a person &apos;s life , but every day we have the opportunity to change one .
so go ahead ; save the shoes .
thank you .
bruno guissani : mark , mark , come back .
thank you .
i &apos;m just coming back from a community that knows the secret of the progression of humanity .
a place where the women are leading the adopter with sex , saying hello , and the game determines the day -- where fun is a serious issue .
and no , it &apos;s not burn man or san francisco .
ladies and gentlemen , their relatives .
this is the world of the wild bonobos in the ancient forest of congo .
if one of the things that enables people of our society to make decisions about the societies where people have shifted too little choice , not only would it improve people &apos;s lives , but our dignity would be improved .
bonobos are our closest living relatives with chimpanzees .
that means we have a common ancestor , an evolutionary grandmother , who lived about six million years ago .
well , chimpanzees are known for their aggressivity .
but unfortunately , we &apos;ve overemphasized this aspect in the narrative of human evolution .
but bonobos show us the other side of the medal
as chimpanzees are led by large , scary guys , the bonobo society is led by empowered females .
they really came up with something , because that leads to a very tolerant society where deadly violence has not been observed .
but unfortunately , bonobos are the least known for the primates .
they live in the depths of the congolese primeval forest , and they &apos;re very difficult to observe .
congo is a paradox -- a country of extraordinary biodiversity and beauty , but also the heart of the darkness itself -- the location of a violent argument that has been ravaging for decades , and has asked almost as many lives as the first world war .
economists call this a pareto improvement application .
it &apos;s not surprising that this destruction also threatens the survival of the bonobos .
meat trade and the decline of the tree is that you couldn &apos;t even fill a stadium with the remaining bonobos -- and even there we are not sure to be honest .
and yet , in this country of violence and chaos , you can hear a hidden laugh that the trees are shaking .
who are these relatives ?
we know them as &quot; love instead of war &quot; monkeys , because they have frequent , also bisexual sex , with changing partners , and rules like this , and social issues .
i &apos;m not saying that &apos;s the answer to all humanitarian problems -- because the life of the bonobos is more than the cama sutra .
bonobos -- like people -- love playing their lives .
play doesn &apos;t just mean child games .
for us and for them , play is fundamental to the attachment of relationships and the care of tolerance .
and we learn trust and the rules of the game .
income distribution is going to make sure that everybody is doing better -- not just the poor -- because all this big choice is going to plain us .
play enhances creativity and resilience , and it &apos;s all about producing diversity -- diversity of interactions , diversity of behaviors , diversity of connections .
and when you watch bonobos play , you see the evolutionary origins of human salmon , dance and rituals .
play is the tickle that keeps us apart .
now , i don &apos;t know how you play , but i want to show you some unique images from the wild .
first of all , a ball game in bonobo-style -- and i don &apos;t think about football .
so here we see a young female and male in a tracking game .
look at what she &apos;s doing .
that could be the evolutionary origin of , &quot; she grabs it in the eggs . &quot;
just that i think he likes it , right .
yeah !
finally , please read this cartoon , and a highly developed person , says , &quot; ah ! what does this fish know ?
so sex games are common , both in bonobos and in humans .
and this video is really interesting , because it shows -- and this video is really interesting , because it shows the idea of bringing new elements into play with -- like the testicles -- and also how the game requires both trust and promotes -- while at the same time it &apos;s incredibly fun .
but the game is a shape-shifter .
play is a shape-shifter , and it can take a lot of forms that some of them are a little bit more quiet , curious -- maybe to rediscover the amazing .
and i want to show you , this is fuku , a young female , and she plays peaceful with water .
i think just like they &apos;re playing alone sometimes , and we &apos;re exposing boundaries of our inner and outer worlds .
and it &apos;s this playful curiosity that lets us explore and interact , and the unexpected link that we form is the real nutritional ground of creativity .
this is just a little taste of the insights that bonobos give us in our past and our present .
but they also maintain a secret to our future , a future in which we have to adapt to increasing challenges , through greater creativity and print , enhanced cooperation .
the secret is that the game is the key to these skills .
you don &apos;t know anything possible in this goldfish glass . &quot;
in other words , play is our adaptation joker .
in order to successfully adapt to an inconsistent world , we have to play .
but are we going to make the best of our play drive ?
play is not silly .
it &apos;s essential .
for bonobos and people alike , life is not made of teeth and claws alone .
even when it seems hardly appropriate , play is perhaps the most necessary .
and so , my primate comrades , let &apos;s hug this gift of evolution and play together as we rediscover the creativity of the camera and the wonder .
thank you .
i want you to imagine two pairs in the middle of 1979 , exactly the same day , at the same moment , every baby -- okay .
arm impoverished imagination , a short-sighted view of the world -- and that &apos;s the way i first read it .
so two couples , every baby .
now , i don &apos;t want you to spend too much time imagining the production , because if you think about it all the time , you &apos;re not going to listen to me .
just imagine for a moment .
and in this scenario , imagine that in one case , the sperm is wearing a y chomosom hitting the x chromosome of the egg .
and in the other case , the sperm carries a x chromosome that hits the x chromosome of the egg .
both of them are survivable , both of them are light .
we &apos;ll come back to these people later .
most of my activities , i have two hats .
under a hat , i &apos;m involved in the history of anatomy .
i &apos;m a historian , and in this case , i study how people deal with anatomy -- that is human bodies , animal bodies -- how they deal with body fluids , with body concepts ; how they thought about bodies .
but the more i thought about it , the more i came to the view that the fish knows something .
the other hat that i &apos;ve been wearing in my work is the activist , as a patient lawyer -- or , as i sometimes say , as an impatient lawyer -- of people who are patients of doctors .
in this case , i &apos;ve been working with people who have body types , who are challenging social norms .
so for example , i worked with people who are siamese twins , two people in a body .
i worked with people with dwarf growth -- so people who were smaller than usual .
and very often , i &apos;ve been working with intersexual people whose gender is atypical -- so people who don &apos;t have the average male or female body types .
and as a general term , we can use the word &quot; intersexuality . &quot;
intersexuality is in many different forms .
i &apos;m just going to give you a couple of examples of the potential types of gender variants that don &apos;t correspond to male or female standards .
in one case , you may have somebody with a xy chromosomes base , and the sry gene of the y chomosoms is the protogonads that we all have to grow up fetal stadium .
and that &apos;s why the testosterone shows up at the fetal stage .
they raised these photographs from the forest floor , tried to see behind the face or the character , found nothing and concluded that this was business cards of the devil and killed the five missionaries with the spear .
because the truth is that if you break the gold glass , so that everything is possible , you don &apos;t have freedom . you have paralysis .
but because this individual is missing the receptors to see the testosterone , the body doesn &apos;t respond to the testosterone .
and this is called androgenic defect .
so a lot of testosterone , but no reaction to that .
as a result , the body develops more of the typical female course .
when the child is born , she looks like a girl .
she &apos;s a girl . she &apos;s raised as a girl .
but it &apos;s mostly until she reaches puberty and her breasts grow and develop , but she doesn &apos;t get her period until somebody realizes that there &apos;s something different here .
and they do some tests , and they find that instead of having ovaries and uterus , she actually has testicles and she has a y chromosome .
and it &apos;s important to understand that you could actually think that person is male , but they &apos;re not really .
women , like men , have in our bodies something called adrenaline glands .
if you break the gold jar , so that everything is possible , you reduce happiness .
they &apos;re in the back of our body .
and the side kidneys make androgens , which are virilizing hormones .
most women , like me -- i think i &apos;m a typical woman -- i don &apos;t know my actual chromosome building , but i think i probably have the typical -- most women like me actually talk on androgens .
we produce androgen , and we respond to androgens .
the consequence is that somebody like me actually has a brain that was exposed to more androgens than a woman who was born with testicles and had an androgenic defect .
so gender is really complicated ; intersexuals are not just in the middle of the spectrum of gender -- in a sense , they can be spread across the whole range .
another example : a few years ago , i got a call from a 19 year-old man who was born as a boy , raised as a boy , had a friend , had sex with his girlfriend , lived as a man , and he had just figured out that he had ovaries and a uterus .
he had an extreme form of an innate side cattle hyperbubble .
he has xx chromosome , and in the womb , his side kidneys were so active that they basically created a male hormone environment .
and as a consequence , his genitaly was male , his brain was exposed to the typical male part of the hormone spectrum .
they increase the paralysis and reduce the happiness .
and when he was born , he looked like a boy -- no one knew anything .
and it wasn &apos;t until he was 19 years old that he got enough medical problems , actually , because he menaced inside that the doctors found that he was female inside .
okay , just a quick example of a variant of intersexuality .
some people with xx chromosomes , they develop something called ovotestis , where ovotestis is surrounded by high tissue .
we don &apos;t know exactly why this is happening .
so gender can occur in many different varieties .
the reason why kids with this kind of body -- whether it &apos;s dwarf or siamesian twins , whether it &apos;s intersexually -- surgeons are often adapted to the norm is not because it would be advantageous to their physical health .
in many cases , these people are completely healthy .
the reason why they &apos;re often introduced to different kinds of surgical interventions is because they &apos;re threatening our social categories .
typically , our system is based on the idea that a certain anatomic expression comes in with a particular identity .
everybody needs a gold glass .
so we have the concept that being a woman is to have a female identity ; to be a black person , is supposed to have an african anatomy in terms of your own story .
so we have this terribly simplistic idea .
and when we &apos;re faced with a body that actually represents something very different to us , it confuses us in terms of these categorizations .
so we have a lot of romantic ideas about individualism in our culture .
and our nation is really based on a very romantic concept of individualism .
now you can imagine how amazing it is when children are born , who are two people in a body .
where i &apos;ve seen most of the excitement recently , the south african runner caster semenya last year , whose gender was challenged in the body of the world cup in berlin .
a lot of journalists called me on the question , &quot; what test are you going to do that will tell us whether caster semenya is female or male ? &quot;
and i had to explain to the journalists that there &apos;s no test .
we now know that gender is complicated enough that we have to admit that nature doesn &apos;t draw a line between male and female , or between male and intersexual and intersexual , and intersexual ; we are tactile that separation as natural .
this is almost entirely limited to safety -- possibly to the fish , definitely to us .
so we have a situation like this , where , as we continue our science , we have to admit that these categories that we thought were stable anatomic categories that made very simple configurations to create permanent identity categories are much less sharper than we thought .
and that &apos;s not just in terms of gender .
it &apos;s also true in terms of race , which turns out to be much more complicated than our terminology has allowed .
in our views , we went into all kinds of inconvenient areas .
so for example , we &apos;re looking at the fact that we have at least 95 percent of our dna with chimpanzees .
what are we going to do with the fact that we &apos;re different from them just by a few nucleotides ?
as we move our science forward and forward , we get more and more into a zone of discomfort , where we have to recognize that the simplistic categories that we &apos;ve had are probably too simple .
we see this in all sorts of different areas of human life .
one of the areas where we see this as the beipiel , in our culture today , in the united states today , are the fighting over the beginning and the end of life .
we have hard conversations about where a body becomes human , so that it &apos;s a different right than the fetal life .
but being a metaphorical goldfish glass is a recipe for misery , and , i suspect , disaster .
we have very difficult arguments today -- maybe not as public as in medicine -- about the question of when someone has died .
our ancestors had never had that hard to fight with the question of when someone was dead .
they &apos;ve kept a feather under the nose , and when it moved , they haven &apos;t buried it yet .
if it didn &apos;t move , you buried it .
but today we are in a situation where we take people out of vital organs and we want to plant them to other people .
and as a result , we get caught up in the fight with the really difficult question of when someone is dead , and that brings us into a really difficult situation where we don &apos;t have as simple categories as we used to .
now you might think that the whole collapse of categories would make someone like me really happy .
i &apos;m politically progressive , i defend people with unusual bodies , but i have to admit it makes me nervous .
to realize that these categories are really much more insecure than we thought , makes me excited .
and it makes me excited about thinking about democracy .
thank you very much .
so to tell you about this tension , i have to first know that i &apos;m a big fan of the founding fathers .
i know they were racial , i know they were sexist , but they were great .
i think they were so brave and so strong , and so radical , in what they did , that i found myself watching the malignant musical 1776 every few years , and it &apos;s not because of the music that is absolutely forgotten .
it &apos;s because of what happened to the founding fathers in 1776 .
the founding fathers , in my view , were the original anatomic activists , and that &apos;s why .
what she proved was an anatomic concept , and they replaced it by another that was radical and beautiful , and 200 years was measurable for us .
as you all remember , our founding fathers rejected the concept of monarchy , and the monarchy was basically based on a very simplistic concept of anatomy .
the rulers of the old world had no concept based on dna , but they had a concept of the birth right .
they had a concept of blue blood .
they thought that people who had political power should have this political power because of the inherited blood line from grandfather to son and so on .
you know , i &apos;ve talked about some of these projects before , about the human genome and what that might mean , and the discovery of new groups of genes .
the founding fathers returned this idea and replaced it through a new anatomic concept , and this concept said that all humans were created equally .
they niveled the game field , and they decided that anatomically , the commonalities matter , not the differences , and that was very radical .
now they did it in part because they were part of an elaborate system where two things grew together .
democracy grew , but at the same time , science grew .
if you look at the history of the founding fathers , it &apos;s clear that many of them were very interested in science , and they were interested in a concept of a naturalistic world .
they went away from explanations of supernatural ways , and they proved things like a supernatural concept of power , back where the transmission is based on a very vague concept of birth .
they moved to a natural concept .
and if you look at , for example , the declaration of independence , they talk about nature and the god of nature .
they &apos;re not talking about god and the nature of god .
they &apos;re talking about the power of nature to tell us who we are .
in fact , we &apos;re starting from a new point : we &apos;ve digitized biology , and now we &apos;re trying to get from digital code into a new phase of biology by designing and building new life .
and as part of that , they gave us a concept that was about anatomical commonalities .
and so they &apos;ve prepared , in a really wonderful way , the future civil rights movement .
they didn &apos;t think about it that way , but what they did for us was great .
so , years after that , what happened ?
for example , women who were striving the right to vote , the concept of founding fathers , which says that anatomic commonality is more important than the anatomic difference , and said , &quot; that we have a uterus and an egg stick is not significant enough that we should not have the right to vote , the right to full citizenship , the right to own , etc . &quot;
and women argued that successfully .
the next was the successful civil rights movement , where we saw people like sojourner truth , who said , &quot; am i not a woman ? &quot;
we find men in the marching rows of the citizen movement saying , &quot; i &apos;m a man . &quot;
again , people of different skin color , which are based on anatomical commonalities before anatomic differences , again , successful .
we see the same thing in the disability movement .
we &apos;ve always tried to ask major questions .
of course , the problem is that , as we start to look at all the commonalities , we have to start asking why we keep certain separations .
now , well-remembered , i want to keep certain separations , anatomically , in our culture .
for example , i don &apos;t want to give a fish the same rights as a human being .
i don &apos;t want to say that we should take away from anatomy .
i don &apos;t want to say that five year-olds should be right to give their consent to sex or to marry .
so there are some anatomic separations that make sense to me , and that i think we should keep .
but the challenge is to try to figure out which one is and why we keep them , and whether they &apos;re meaningful .
so let &apos;s go back to these two creatures that have been launched at the beginning of the talk .
we have two creatures , both in the middle of 1979 , on the same day .
let &apos;s imagine that one of them , maria , was born three months earlier , so she &apos;s born on june one , 1980 .
we go through initiation rituals .
but the waorani not only killed the outsiders with the spear .
what is life ? it &apos;s something that i think a lot of biologists have tried to understand and understand at different levels .
heinrich , on the other hand , is born to the birthday minister , so he &apos;s born on march one in 1980 .
just because of the fact that maria was born three months earlier , she acquired all kinds of rights three months before heinrich -- to have the right to take the right to drink .
heinrich has to wait for all of this , not because he actually has a different biological age , just because of his birth &apos;s time point .
we find other oddities about what their rights are .
heinrich , because you think he &apos;s male -- although i didn &apos;t tell you he &apos;s the one with xy -- because you think he &apos;s a male , he can now be pulled in what maria doesn &apos;t have to worry about .
maria , on the other hand , can &apos;t quite perceive the same thing that heinrich has in all states , which is the right to marry .
heinrich can marry a woman in any state , but maria can now marry a woman in a few states .
so we have these permanent anatomic categories that are problematic and questionable in many ways .
and for me , the question is , what are we going to do , because our science makes such progress in the anatomy , that we have to get to a point where we have to admit that a democracy based on anatomy could fall apart ?
i don &apos;t want to give up science , but at the same time it feels like science is making itself self-sufficient .
we tried different approaches to simplify it all the way down to the minimal components .
so where do we go ?
it seems like our culture is taking a kind of pragmatic posture : &quot; well , we have to draw a line somewhere , so we &apos;re going to pull it somewhere . &quot;
but a lot of people get caught in a very strange position .
so for example , texas , at one point , decided that if you marry a man , you don &apos;t have y chromosome , and you have a woman to marry that you have a y chromosome .
now in practice , people don &apos;t get tested on their chromosome .
but it &apos;s also very bizarre because of the story that i told you about the androgenic defect initially .
if we look at one of the founding fathers of modern democracy , dr. martin luther king , he gives us a kind of a solution in his &quot; i have a dream . &quot;
he says we should not judge people by &quot; their skin color , but by the trait of their character , &quot; and it goes beyond anatomy .
and i want to say , &quot; yes , that sounds like a really good idea . &quot;
but how do you do that in practice ?
we &apos;ve digitized almost 20 years , and when we sequenced the human genome , the shift from the analog world of biology to the digital world of computers .
how do you judge people because of their characteristics ?
i also want to point out that i &apos;m not sure that we should distribute rights to people so much because i have to admit that i know a series of golden retriever that probably deserves social benefits rather than some people i know .
i want to say that i probably know some bright laboratories that are more capable , more intelligent and richer decisions about their sexual relations than some 40-year-olds i know .
so how are we going to operate on the characteristics of character ?
it turns out to be really hard .
and part of me is wondering , what if the content of a personality was something that would be machine readable in the future -- could be made visible by fmri ?
do we really want to go this way ?
i &apos;m not sure where we &apos;re going .
what i know is that it seems really important to think about the idea that the united states is in the process of thinking about questions of democracy .
in our effort for democracy , we &apos;ve done our thing really well , and i think we would do well in the future .
now we &apos;re trying to ask , can we regenerate life , or can we create new life , from this digital universe ?
we don &apos;t have the situation , like iran , for example , where a man who feels sexually drawn to other men is punished with death , unless he &apos;s willing to undergo a gender transformation in which case he can stay alive .
we don &apos;t exist with these kinds of states .
i &apos;m happy to say that we don &apos;t have these states -- a surgeon i talked to a couple of years ago , who had brought some siamese twins to separate them , partly to make a name .
but when i telephone with him , and he asked him why he did these surgeries -- they were highly risky surgeries -- his answer was that in his country , these kids would be very poorly treated , and therefore he had to do it .
i said to him , &quot; well , did you consider political asyl instead of an operation to separate you ? &quot;
the united states has incredible opportunities to allow people to be the ones they are , without having to change for the state .
so i think we need to be leaders .
well , just to conclude , i want to notice that i &apos;ve talked a lot about the fathers .
and i want to think about the possibilities of what democracy might look like , or what could have looked like if we had more mothers involved .
and i want to say something that is a little bit radical to a feminist , and that is , i think there might be different kinds of insights that govern by different kinds of anatomy , especially when people apply a group thinking .
this is the map of a small organism , mycoplasma geitalium , which has the smallest genome of a species that can replicate itself in the lab , and we &apos;ve tried to see if we can do that with a smaller genome .
for years , because i &apos;ve been interested in intersexuality , i &apos;ve been interested in research in gender difference .
and one of the things that i found really interesting is the difference between men and women in terms of how they think and operate in the world .
what we &apos;ve learned from cross-cultural studies is that women , on average -- not every , but on average -- tend to be more complex social relationships and caring for people who are vulnerable within the group , give a lot of attention .
and that &apos;s why , when we think about it , we have an interesting situation .
years ago , when i was a graduate student , one of my graduate students asked me , who knew my interest in feminism -- i looked at myself as a feminist , do it -- a really strange question .
he said , &quot; tell me what &apos;s female about feminism . &quot;
and i thought , &quot; well , that &apos;s the stupidest question i &apos;ve ever heard .
feminism is about solving stereotypes about gender , which is why feminism is not female .
but the more i thought about his question , the more i thought there could be something female in feminism .
that means that there could be something , on average , where female brains are different from male brains , which makes us more careful for highly complex social relations , and more careful for the protective .
we &apos;ve managed to give it to about a hundred genes from the 500 or so that are here .
so where the founding fathers were extremely suspicious of figuring out how individuals could be protected from the state , it &apos;s possible that if we brought more mothers into this concept , we more of a concept of , not just how to protect , but how to care for each other .
and maybe it &apos;s where we need to go in the future when we take democracy beyond anatomy -- think less about the individual body in terms of identity , and think more about relationships .
so that when we try to make a more perfect connection as people , we think about what we can do for each other .
thank you .
i &apos;m jessi , and this is my suitcase .
but before i show you what i have in it , i &apos;m going to do a very public confession , and that is , i &apos;m obsessed with outfits .
i love to find a different colorful , crazy outfit at every time , and to photograph and to blogge .
but i don &apos;t buy anything new .
i get all my clothes from second-hand on the flip markets and in second-hand shops .
oh , thank you .
but if we look at this metabolic map , which is very simple , compared to ours , trust me , that &apos;s simple , but if we look at all these genes that we can eliminate one after the other , it &apos;s very unlikely that this would lead to a living cell .
second-hand shopping allows me to reduce the impact of my garderobe to the environment , and also to my purse .
i meet all kinds of great people ; my dollars usually serve for a good purpose ; i look pretty unique ; and it makes me shop for my personal closet .
i mean , what am i going to find today ?
is it going to be my size ?
am i going to like the color ?
will it cost less than 20 dollars ?
when all the answers are yes , i feel like i &apos;ve won .
i come back to my suitcase , and i &apos;ll tell you what i &apos;ve been packing up for this exciting week here at ted .
i mean , what does anybody bring with so many outfits ?
so i &apos;m going to show you exactly what i brought .
so we decided that the only way forward is to actually synthesize this chromosome , which allows us to vary the individual components and ask some of these fundamental questions .
i brought seven underpants , and that &apos;s all .
underpants for exactly a week are all i did in my suitcase .
i woke up that i would find anything else i might want to wear if i came to palm springs .
and since you haven &apos;t heard of me , as the woman who &apos;s walking around here at ted in her underwear -- that means i found a couple of things .
and i really want to show you my outfits for this week .
does that sound good ?
as i do that , i &apos;m going to give you some of the lessons that i , believe it or not , have learned from these adventures to wear nothing new .
let &apos;s start with sunday .
i call this the bright tiger .
you don &apos;t have to spend a lot of money looking great .
and so we started with the question , can we synthesize a chromosome ?
you can almost always look great for less than 50 dollars .
this whole outfit , including the jacket , cost me 55 , and it was the most expensive piece that i carried all week .
monday : color is something powerful .
it &apos;s almost physiologically impossible to be miserable when you &apos;re wearing light red pants .
if you &apos;re happy , you attract other happy people .
tuesday : adaptation is totally overrated .
i spent a lot of time in my life trying to be myself , and at the same time adapting .
just be who you are .
if you surround yourself with the right people , you &apos;re not just going to understand it , you &apos;re going to appreciate it .
wednesday : embrace your inner child .
is it possible for chemistry to make these really big molecules , which has never been done before ?
sometimes people tell me i looked like i was playing clothes , or i remember her seven-year-olds .
i then like to smile and say , &quot; thank you . &quot;
thursday : self-confidence is the key .
if you think you &apos;re looking good at something , it &apos;s almost like this .
and if you think you don &apos;t look good in something , you &apos;re probably right .
i grew up with a mother who taught me the day after day .
but it wasn &apos;t until i turned 30 that i really understood what that means .
and i &apos;m going to summarize that for you for a moment .
if you think you &apos;re a wonderful person inside and outside , there &apos;s nothing you can &apos;t wear .
so there &apos;s no excuse for someone in this audience .
they drilled each other .
and if we can do that , can we start the chromosome ?
we should be able to rock everything we want .
thank you .
friday : a universal truth -- five words : golden pailletes fit to everything .
and finally , saturday : developing a unique , personal style is a great way to tell the world about you without having to say a word .
it was proven to me over and over again , when people came up to me this week , just because of what i was wearing , and i had great conversations .
obviously , this is not going to fit in my tiny suitcase .
so before i go home to brooklyn , i &apos;m going to donate all this again .
because the lesson i &apos;m trying to learn this week is that it &apos;s okay to let go .
i don &apos;t have to touch these things emotionally , because right around the corner , there will always be another crazy , colorful , radiation outfit that awaits me if i have a little love in the heart and search .
thank you very much .
a chromosome is just a piece of chemical material , by the way .
thank you .
good afternoon , everybody together .
i have something i want to show you here .
think of this as a visual point , as a flying point .
this is what we call perceptual design in our lab .
let me tell you a little bit about this .
now , if you take this picture -- i &apos;m originally italian , and every boy in italy grows up with this picture in his room , but the reason i &apos;m showing you this is something very interesting that happened in the formula one in the past decade .
some time ago , if you wanted to run a formula 1 , you took your budget and put your money on a good driver and a good car .
and if the car and the driver were good enough , they won the race .
now , today , if you want to win a race , you actually need something like this -- something that &apos;s monitoring the car in real time , has a few thousand sensors , the information from the car , the information to the system , and then you process it and then you use it to send back this car decisions and change things in real time as information is collected .
our steps in digitizing life were exponential .
this is what you would call , in engineering teams , a real-time control system .
and basically , it &apos;s a system that &apos;s made up of two parts -- a sentient part and a reacting part .
what &apos;s interesting today is the real-time control systems are starting to emerge in our lives .
our cities , in the last few years , have been equipped with networks and electronics .
they become free computers .
and as a free computer , they start to react in a different way , they &apos;re perceived and driven .
when we make cities , it &apos;s actually a big thing .
just by the way , i want to mention that cities are only two percent of the world &apos;s land , but 50 percent of the world &apos;s population lives there .
they &apos;re 75 percent of the energy consumption -- up to 80 percent of the co2 emissions .
so if we do something with the cities , that &apos;s a big thing .
our ability to write genetic code has been evolving very slowly , but nevertheless , and our last point would now be on an exponential curve .
beyond the cities , all of this perceivation and driven into objects of everyday life .
this is from an exhibition organized by paola antonelli for moma later in the year , during the summer .
it &apos;s called &quot; jump with me . &quot;
well , all of our objects , our environment , begin to speak back to us .
in a sense , it &apos;s almost like every atom out there becomes both a sensor and a driver .
and that radically changes the interaction that we humans have with our environment .
in a way , it &apos;s almost like the old dream of michelangelo ...
you know , when michelangelo shaped moses , it means he took the hammer at the end and threw it on moses -- in fact , you can still see a little spot underneath -- and said , &quot; perché non parli ? why don &apos;t you talk ? &quot;
well , today , our environment begins for the first time to answer us .
i &apos;m just going to show you a few examples -- again , with the idea of perceiving and driving our environment .
we started it 15 years ago .
let &apos;s start with the perceivation .
now the first project i want to introduce you to is actually one of the first of our labs .
it was born in italy four and a half years ago .
and what we were doing was actually using a new kind of network that was used all over the world -- this is a mobile phone network -- and using anonymous and aggregated information from this network that &apos;s now being collected from the operator to understand how the city works .
summer was a happy summer -- 2006 .
it was when italy won the football world championship .
some of you will remember it was when italy was playing against france , and then at the end of zidane , the headache .
and anyway , italy ended up winning italy .
now look at what happened that day , just watching the activity that &apos;s happening in the network .
here you see the city .
it actually took a few years to start with a bioethical review before we did the first experiments .
you can see in the middle the colosseum , the river of tiber .
in the morning , before the game .
you see the timeline up there .
early afternoon , people here and there , are calling and moving .
the game starts -- silence .
france makes a gate . italy makes a gate .
half-time , people make a short call , go to a toilet .
second semi-time . end of the normal game time .
first extension , second .
zidane , in a moment of the headache .
it turns out that dna synthesization is very difficult .
italy wins . yeah .
now , that night , everybody went to the center to celebrate .
they saw the big impact .
the next day , everybody went to the center to meet the team of seven and the prime minister at the same time .
and then everybody went down .
you see the picture of the place about massimo , where , since the roman time , people go to celebration -- to have a big party , and you see the impact at the end of the day .
now , this is just one example of how we can feel the city today in a way that we couldn &apos;t do a few years ago .
so quickly another example of feeling : this is not about people , but about things that we use and consume .
well , we know everything about where our things come from today .
this is a map that shows you all the chips that have a mac computer , how they got together .
there are tens of thousands of machines around the world that can make little bits of dna , 30 to 50 letters long , but it &apos;s a degenerative process , so the longer you make a piece , the more errors happen .
but we don &apos;t know much about where things go .
so in this project , we actually designed some little markers to track the garbage as it goes through the system .
so we started with some volunteers who helped us , a little over a year ago , in seattle , to tag the things that they threw away -- different kinds of things you can see -- things that they would throw away anyway .
then we have the little chips , the little brands , glued on the trash , and we started tracking it .
here are the results that we just got .
from seattle ...
after a week .
and with this information , we realized that there &apos;s a lot of inefficiency in the system .
we can actually do the same things with less energy .
the data was not available before .
so we had to develop a new method where we could put these little pieces together and correct the mistakes .
but a lot of unuseful transportation and complicated things happen .
but the other thing is that we believe that when we see every day , the cup that we throw away is not just disappearing , that it &apos;s still somewhere on the planet .
and the plastic bottle that we &apos;re still throwing away every day .
and if we showed that to people , then we can make a change in behavior .
so that &apos;s the reason for this project .
my colleague at mit , assaf biderman , could tell you much more about this and the many other wonderful things that you can perceive , but i &apos;d like to talk about the second part that we discussed at the beginning , and that &apos;s the anesthesia of our environment .
and the first project is something we did in zaragoza a few years ago , spain .
it began with a question of the mayor who came to us and said that spain and south europe have a beautiful tradition to use water in public places as part of architecture .
and the question was : how could you connect technology , new technology ?
and one of the ideas that was mediated at mit in a workforce was to imagine these tubes , and valves , magnet valves , valves that open and close .
this was our first attempt , starting with the digital information , the genome phi x 174 .
they cause something like a water curtain with images of water .
if these images fall down , you can write on it , you can display patterns , images , text .
and you can approach him , and he &apos;s going to open up to let you jump through , as you can see in this picture .
well , we introduced the mayor belhole .
he loved it very much .
and we got the assignment to design a building in the entrance of the expo .
we called it the digital water pavillion .
the whole building was made of water .
there are no doors or windows , but if you approach it , it will open and leave it in .
the roof was also covered with water .
54 percent of the deaths were done by drilling .
it &apos;s a little virus that kills bacteria .
and if it &apos;s windy , if you want to reduce the syringe , you can actually leave the roof down .
or you could close the building , and the whole architecture , like in this case , you know , those days , when you go down the roof , you get images of people who were there and say , &quot; you &apos;ve destroyed the building . &quot;
no , they didn &apos;t destroy the building , it &apos;s just that architecture almost disappears .
this is how the building works .
you see the person who &apos;s wondering what &apos;s going on inside .
and here you see me when i tried to not get wet when i tried to test the sensors that opened the water .
now , if i told you what happened one night when all the sensors stopped working .
but actually , that night , it was even more fun .
all the kids from zaragoza came to the building , because the way they played with the building was very different .
no longer a building that would open up to let them in , but a building that still had breaks and holes in the water , you had to jump now without getting wet .
we made little pieces , we made a error correction , and we had a dna molecule of about 5,000 letters .
and that was , for us , very exciting , because as architects , engineers , as designers , we always think about how people who use things that we design .
but reality is always unpredictable .
and that &apos;s the beauty of creating things that are used and interacting with people .
so here &apos;s a picture of the building with the physical imagery points , the imagery of water and the projections on it .
and this is what got us to think about the following project that i &apos;m going to show you now .
imagine those dots could really begin to fly .
imagine if you could have little helicopters flying through the air , and each of you with a little image point with changing light -- almost like a cloud that can move through the room .
here &apos;s the video .
imagine a helicopter , like the one you saw earlier , that moves with others , completely synchronized .
you can have this cloud .
the exciting phase came when we took this piece of chemical and we put it into a bacterium , and the bacteria started reading the genetic code and made viral particles .
you can have a kind of flexible screen or display , like this -- an equal formation in two dimensions .
or infrequently , though , in three dimensions , where what changes is light is not the position of the imagery .
they can play with different kinds of things .
imagine the screen could just appear in different formats or sizes , in different resolution .
but then the whole thing could be just a 3d cloud of images that you can go to and move through , that you can look at from many , many directions .
here you see a real flyfir controller coming down to form an equal v like before .
when you turn on the light , it looks like this , so the way we saw it before .
imagine that every single one of people is controlled .
it could be any single imagery point that comes from people , from the movements of people or something .
i want to show you something here first .
the viral particles were then released by the cells and came back and killed e. coli .
we &apos;ve been working with roberto bolle , one of the best ballet dancers of our time -- the étoile at the metropolitan theater in new york and the scale in milan -- we &apos;ve taken his movements in 3d to use them as the impulse for the flyfire .
here you see roberto dancing .
on the left-hand side , you see the images , the different prisoners &apos; impressions .
it &apos;s also a real-time 3d scan and a motion shot .
so you can understand the whole movement .
you can do that all the time .
but then once we have all the imagery points , you can play with it and play with color motion with gravity and rotation .
we want to use that as a possible impulse for the flyfire .
i want to show you the latest project that we &apos;re working on .
it &apos;s something we &apos;re working on for the london olympics .
i talked to the oil industry recently , and they said that they could really understand this model .
it &apos;s called the cloud -- the cloud .
the idea is , again , imagine that we &apos;re going to bring people back to do something and change the environment -- almost like what we call a cloud movement , to move a scheunentor , but with a cloud .
imagine that everybody can give a little donation to a picture point .
i think that the remarkable thing of the past few years , the last decade , is that we &apos;ve gone from a physical world to a digital world .
this has digitized everything , knowledge , and it &apos;s making it available through the internet .
today , for the first time -- and the campaign of obamas has shown this -- we can move from the digital world , from the self-organizing forces of the networks to the physical world .
this can be , in our case , that we use it to design and create a symbol .
that means something that &apos;s built in the city .
but tomorrow , to face the challenges that are coming -- think about climate change or co2 emissions -- how can we then move from the digital world to the physical .
so the idea is that we actually involve people with things together , collectively .
they laughed more than you do here .
the cloud is again a cloud of images points , in the same way as a real cloud is a cloud of particles .
and these particles are water , while our cloud is a cloud of images .
it &apos;s a physical form in london , but covered with dots .
they can move inside and have different kinds of experiences .
you can actually look at it from the bottom , divide the most important moments for olympics in 2012 and beyond , and use it as a kind of connection to the community .
so both , the physical cloud in the sky and something that you can go to the top , like london &apos;s new mountain summit .
you can go in .
and a kind of digital glow on the night -- but most importantly , a new kind of experience for anyone who wants to go to the top .
thank you .
as an artist , i really care about the context .
so we think this is a situation where software can actually build its own hardware in a biological system .
through my work , i try to express that humans are not separate from nature and that everything is connected .
for the first time , i was in antarctica about 10 years ago , where i saw my first iceberg .
i was awe .
my heart raced , i was dizzy while i was trying to grab what was in front of me .
the icebergs around me were racing about 60 meters out of the water , and i could only wonder that this was a snowflake on another snowflake , year after year .
iceberg is born as a calf of a glacier , or by breaking out of ice shelves .
every iceberg has its own individual personality .
they are clearly interacting with their surroundings and their experiences .
some people refuse to give up and clam to the bitter end , while others stop and collapse dramatic passion in a seizure .
when you look at an iceberg , you think easily that they &apos;re isolated , separated and alone , as we humans often see us .
but we wanted to go much further . we wanted to build an entire bacterial chromosome , and it has more than 580,000 letters of genetic code , so we thought we could build it in cassets of the size of the virus , where we could vary the size of the cassets to understand what the individual components of a living cell are .
but the truth is far from it .
as an iceberg melts , i breathe its temporary atmosphere .
during the iceberg , it releases mineral drinking water that feeds a lot of life forms .
i &apos;m going to take my pictures of these icebergs as if i &apos;m making portraits of my ancestors , consciousness that they exist in these individual moments from this way , and will never exist again .
it &apos;s not a death when they melt ; it &apos;s not an end , it &apos;s a continuation of their path along the life cycle .
part of the ice in the icebergs that i &apos;m photographing is very young -- a few thousand years old .
and part of the ice is more than 100,000 years old .
the last images i &apos;d like to show you are an iceberg that i photographed in kekertsuatsiak in greenland .
very rarely you actually become witnesses of a rolling iceberg .
so here you see it .
design is the key , and if you want to start with digital information on the computer , this digital information really has to be flawed .
on the left you see a little boat .
that &apos;s about five meters long .
please pay attention to the shape of the iceberg and where it is on the waterline .
you can see here , he &apos;s starting to roll , and the boat has moved to the other side , the man is there .
this is the average size of a greenland iceberg .
it &apos;s about 120 feet from the water , or 40 meters .
and this video is real time .
and just like that , the iceberg shows you a different side of his personality .
thank you .
my life is really extraordinarily blessed by working on some amazing projects .
when we first sequenced the genome in 1995 , the error rate was the error per 10,000 base pairs .
but the coolest thing i &apos;ve ever worked on was this guy .
his name is tempt .
tempt was one of the leading graffiti artists in the &apos; 80s .
then , one day , he came back from walking and said , &quot; dad , my legs , crabs . &quot;
and that was the eruption of that as a result .
tempt is completely paralyzed today .
he can only use his eyes .
i was faced with him .
so i have a company that makes design and animations , so graffiti is inevitably a complex part of what we admire and pay attention to in the art world .
so we decided to support tony -- tempt -- and his thing .
we followed the geneaology eight generations back , and we found two cases of a natural death , and when we asked people about it , they admitted that one of the people had gotten so old that he died because of his age , and we still killed him with the spear .
we found 30 errors in the resource . if we had used the original sequence , it would never have been possible to go up .
i met with his father and his brother , and i said , &quot; we &apos;re going to give you this money .
what are you going to do with this ? &quot;
and his brother said , &quot; i just want to be able to talk to tony again .
i just want to go back with him , and i said , &quot; wait a minute , isn &apos;t that -- i saw stephen hawking -- can &apos;t all the paralyzed people communicate with these devices ? &quot;
and he said , &quot; no , only when you &apos;re in the higher social layer and you have a remarkable insurance , you can really do that .
normal people are not available . &quot;
and i said , &quot; how do you communicate now ? &quot;
did anybody see the movie &quot; butterfly and &quot; diver bell ? &quot;
that &apos;s how they communicate -- that &apos;s how their fingers walk along .
i &apos;m like , &quot; very archaic , how can this be ? &quot;
part of the design is to create pieces that are 50 letters long that have to overlap with other 50-letter pieces to build smaller sub-units to fit them together .
so i came up with the need to just put a check out , and instead i put out a check that i didn &apos;t have the easiest idea of how to fix it .
and i committed to the place and his brother and father -- in the words , &quot; well , my proposal is like this : tony &apos;s going to talk , we &apos;re going to get him a device , and we &apos;re going to find a way that he can do his art again .
because it &apos;s a farce that somebody who carries all of this can &apos;t communicate it . &quot;
so i spoke at a conference a few months later .
i met these guys from grl , graffiti research lab , and they have a technology that allows them to project a light on any surface , and then draw a laser pointer on it , which only registeres the negative surface .
so they &apos;re moving around and making art installations like this .
they say that all the things that are shown up there are going to follow a life cycle .
it starts with the sex parts , then the vaccine words , and then the bush publishing and finally , people actually do art .
but there was always a life cycle in their presentations .
so i went home , and i ate with my wife at night , and i told her about everything , and we thought , &quot; well , wait a minute , if there &apos;s this technology that you can use your eyes to control things , then we should find a way that tempt can control a laser , so that he can do graffiti again , that would be brilliant . &quot;
we &apos;ve added unique elements here .
that was the beginning of the journey .
and about two years later , about a year later , after a lot of organization and a lot of things , we &apos;ve reached some things .
first of all , we &apos;ve taken insurance into the doors , and we &apos;ve actually got a device for speed to communicate with -- a stephen hawking machine .
that was incredible .
and he &apos;s really extremely funny -- i call him yoda , because you talk to him , or you get an email , and you think , &quot; i &apos;m so unworthy , this guy is incredible . &quot;
and we also flew seven programmers from all over the world -- literally from all the corners of the world -- back home .
my wife , my children and i have moved to the garage , and these hackers and programmers and conspiracy theorists and archists have taken over our house .
a lot of our friends thought we were pretty stupid to do that , and that we would come back and all the images on the walls would have been weighed for graffitis .
but for over two weeks , we programmed , we went to the beach mall in venice , my kids were brought in , my dog too , and we created this .
it &apos;s called eyewriter , and you can see the description .
you may have heard that we built in watermarks .
this is a cheap sunglasses that we bought on the beaches of venice , some copper wire and some things from the construction market and the electronics trade .
we took a ps3 camera , we put it apart , we put it on a led light , and now we have a device that &apos;s free -- you can build it yourself , we provide the code for free , you can download the software for free .
so we &apos;ve created a device that is completely free of constraints .
no insurance can make up .
no hospital .
any paralyzed can actually communicate or draw with your eyes alone .
thank you .
thank you very much , that was incredible .
so at the end of the two weeks , we went back to tempt &apos;s room .
i love this picture , because it &apos;s somebody else &apos;s room , and that &apos;s his room .
think about it : we have a four-letter code : a , c , g and t .
now , there &apos;s all this rumble before the great unveiling .
and after more than a year of planning , two weeks of programming , nudelparties and searched nights , tony , for the first time , drew again after seven years .
and this is an amazing picture , because this is his life support system , and he looks beyond his life support system .
we &apos;ve raced his bed so he can see outside .
we set up a projector against a wall of the parking lot in front of the hospital .
and he drew again for the first time , in both his family and his friends -- and you can only imagine what a feeling that was in the parking lot .
unfortunately , we had to break into the parking lot , so we felt that we were part of the spraying scene .
in the end , he sent us an email with the following content : &quot; for the first time in seven years , i drew something .
i feel like i was squeezed underwater , and finally somebody reached down and pulled my head up so i can breathe . &quot;
isn &apos;t that overwhelming ?
triplets of these letters -- these letters encode about 20 amino acids ; and here &apos;s a single purpose for each of these amino acids .
this is something like our fight cry .
that keeps us up and keep us going .
and we need a lot more to do with this device .
it &apos;s an amazing device , but it comes from a magic chart .
and someone who has such an artistic potential deserves so much more .
so we &apos;re trying to figure out how to make it better , faster and stronger .
since that time , we &apos;ve been given all kinds of recognition .
we &apos;ve won some prices .
remember , it &apos;s free , none of us deserve it .
it all comes from our own pockets .
so we can use the genetic code to write our words , sentences , thoughts .
so the awards were , &quot; oh , that &apos;s fantastic . &quot;
armstrong twittered about us and then , in december , the time-magazine honored us as one of the 50 best inventions in 2010 , which was really great .
the coolest thing about this is -- and this includes the whole circle -- that this april , when it comes to moca in the inner city of los angeles , will be an exhibition called the art of the streets .
and there will be pretty much the toughest representatives of the street art scene -- banksy , shepard fairey , caws -- all these guys will be there .
speed is going to be part of the show , which is pretty descended .
so basically , i &apos;m talking about this : if you see something that &apos;s impossible , it &apos;s possible .
everything in this room was impossible -- this stage , this computer , this microphone , the eyewriter -- everything was impossible at some point .
make it possible -- all of you here .
i &apos;m not a programmer , and i &apos;ve never had anything to do with generative technology , but i just captured something and surrounded myself with amazing people so that we could put something on the legs together .
and that question should all of you ask yourself , every single day that you get something , that you have to do , if not now , when ? and if not me , who will ?
we just signed at the beginning .
thank you .
so , i write for children , and i &apos;m probably america &apos;s most likely to be a children &apos;s book .
and i always tell people that i don &apos;t want to get there like a scientist .
you can have me as a farmer , or as a leather , but no one has ever chosen farmers .
today i want to tell you about circles and revelations .
well , an epiphany is usually something you find because you &apos;ve dropped it somewhere .
you go around the block and you take it as an epiphany .
this is a painting of a circle .
one of my friends did it -- richard bollingbroke .
it &apos;s the kind of complicated circle i want to tell you about today .
some people were disappointed that it was not poetry .
my circle started back in the &apos; 60s at high school in stow , ohio , where i was the classroom .
i was the one who was beaten every week in the virgin room green and blue until a teacher saved my life .
she saved my life by letting me use the toilet in the classroom .
she did it secretly .
she did it for three years .
and i had to go out of the city .
i had a thumb , i had 85 dollars , and it hit me to san francisco in california -- i found a lover -- and at the time in the &apos; 80s , i found it important to do a job with aids organizations .
about three or four years ago , i got a phone call from this teacher , ms. posten , who said , &quot; i have to see you .
i &apos;m sad that we &apos;ve never met each other as adults .
can you please come to ohio , and please come together with the guy i know you &apos;ve found him .
we built the pieces so that we could just break them up with enzymes , and there are enzymes that repair them and put them back together .
and i should mention that i have pancreatic cancer , and that i want you to hurry . &quot;
well , the next day we were in cleveland .
we looked at her , we laughed , we cried , and we knew she had to be in a hospice .
we found one for them , we brought them , and we took care of them , and we gave them eight , because it was necessary .
it was something we knew to do .
and just as the woman who wanted to meet me as an adult was to meet me , she turned into a box of ash and was put in my hands .
what had happened was that the circle had closed , it had become a circle -- and the revelation that i talked about turned out to be .
the revelation is that death is part of life .
she saved my life , and my partner and i saved her .
and you know , this part of life needs everything that the rest of life needs .
but at the same time , they had a clear knowledge of the forest that was amazing .
and we &apos;ve started making pieces , starting with pieces that had five to seven thousand letters in them , and we &apos;ve added them to make 24,000-letter pieces to put them back together , up to 72,000 .
he needs truth and beauty , and i &apos;m so happy that this has been mentioned so many times today .
he needs the same -- he needs dignity , love and pleasure . and it &apos;s up to us to give these things .
thank you .
imagine a big explosion as you get up to 1,000 meters .
imagine a plane full of smoke .
imagine a power plant that makes clack , clack , clack , clack , clack , clack , clack , clack .
that sounds scary .
well , i had a unique place that day ; i was sitting on 1d .
i was the only one who could talk to the airplanes .
so i looked at her in a moment , and they said , &quot; no problem , we probably got some birds . &quot;
in each step , we made these pieces in the surplus so we could sequence them , because we tried to create a very robust process , which you &apos;ll see in a minute .
the pilot had already turned the machine , and we weren &apos;t that far away .
you could see manhattan .
two minutes later , three things happened at the same time .
the pilot built the machine after the hudson river .
that &apos;s not usually the route .
it turns off the engine .
imagine a soundless airplane .
and then he said three words -- the lowest words i &apos;ve ever heard .
he says , &quot; ready for the impact . &quot;
i didn &apos;t have to talk to the board staff anymore .
we tried to get to the point of automation .
i could see it in her eyes , there was terror , life was over .
now , i want to share with you three things that i &apos;ve learned about me this day .
i learned that in a moment everything is different .
we have this life plan , we have these things that we want to do in life , and i thought about all the people i wanted to pass a hand , and it didn &apos;t do , all the fences i wanted to flick , all the experiences i wanted to do and never did .
while i was thinking about it later , i realized a phrase , which is , &quot; i &apos;m collecting bad wine . &quot;
because if the wine is there , and the person is there , then i open it .
i never want to make a difference in life .
and that urgency , that goal , really changed my life .
the second thing i learned that day -- and that was when we missed the george washington bridge , pretty much around hair width -- i thought , man , there &apos;s one thing that i really regret .
i had a good life .
so , this looks like a basketball playoff .
in my own humanity and with my mistakes , i aspired to get better in everything i put on .
but in my humanity , i also gave my ego space .
and i regretted the time i wasted for meaningless things , with people who mean something .
and i thought about the relationship with my wife , with friends , with people .
and after that , when i thought about it , i decided to get negative energy out of my life .
it &apos;s not perfect , but it &apos;s much better .
i didn &apos;t argue with my wife for two years anymore .
it feels great .
i &apos;m not trying to be right anymore ; i &apos;m deciding to be happy .
the third thing i learned -- and that is , as the internal clock begins , &quot; 15 , 14 , 13 , &quot; to count down .
when we get to these really big pieces -- over 100,000 base pairs -- they &apos;re not just going to grow in e. coli . it &apos;s going to exceed all the possibilities of modern molecular biology . and so we turned to other mechanisms .
you see the water coming .
i said , &quot; please fly into the air . &quot;
i don &apos;t want this thing to break into 20 parts , as you know from documentaries .
while we &apos;re falling down , i had this feeling of being human , dying is not terrifying .
it &apos;s almost as if we &apos;re preparing for it our lives .
but it was very sad .
i didn &apos;t want to go ; i love my life .
and that sadness really began to form in a thought , which is that i just wish one thing .
i just wish i could see my kids grow up .
about a month after that , i visited a show of my daughter -- first graders , not much artistic talent ...
we knew about a mechanism called the homologist recombination that uses biology to repair dna that can assemble those pieces .
... not yet .
and i celebrate , i cry like a little kid .
and in the world , everything made sense to me .
i realized at the time , by connecting the dots together , that life is all about being a great father .
more than anything , everything else , my only goal in life is to be a good father .
i became a miracle , not to die that day .
i got another gift , which is to look into the future , and to come back and to live differently .
my call to all of you who fly today is : imagine that the same thing happens on your flight -- please don &apos;t -- but imagine , and how would you change ?
what would they do that would push them up because they think they were there forever ?
how would you change your relationships and the negative energy in it ?
here &apos;s an example of this . there &apos;s an organism called deinococccus radiodurans , which is three million rays of radiation .
and more than anything , are they the best parents you can be ?
thank you .
the idea behind the stuxnet computer worm is pretty straightforward .
we don &apos;t want iran to build the bomb .
the most important post there for nuclear weapons development is the uranium incentive institution in natance .
the gray boxes you see here , these are real-time control systems .
now , if we &apos;re able to combine the systems that spin numbers and valves control , then we can actually create a lot of problems with the centrifuge .
these gray boxes don &apos;t run with windows software ; they &apos;re based on a completely different technology .
but if we can get an effective windows virus on a laptop that &apos;s used by a warning engineer to configurate this gray box , then we &apos;re in the business .
and this is the planning behind stxnet .
you can see in the upper field that his chromosome just falls apart .
so we start with a windows dropper .
the usage data is transferred into the gray box , damaging the centrifuge and the iranian nuclear energy program is delayed -- committed .
this is a child &apos;s game , right ?
i want to tell you how we &apos;ve figured that out .
when we started our research six months ago , it was completely unknown what the meaning and purpose of this construction was .
the only thing we knew is very , very complicated in terms of the windows part , the dropper-part , he made countless zero-day-day-wedding .
and it seemed to have something to do with these gray boxes , these real-time control systems .
this attracted our attention , and we started a lab project where we infected our environment with stuxnet , and we looked at this construct .
and then something weird happened .
stuxnet behaved like a lab rat that didn &apos;t like our cheese -- sniffed on it , but didn &apos;t want to eat it .
12 to 24 hours later , it all assembled again as it was .
it didn &apos;t make sense in my eyes .
and after experimenting with different kinds of cheese , i realized this was a targeted attack .
completely focused on a particular goal .
the dropper is actively arguing on the gray box when a special configuration was discovered , even when the special program that &apos;s trying to infect it on this goal .
and if not , stuxnet doesn &apos;t do anything .
so , that really got my interest , and we started working with this , almost around the clock , because i thought , well , we don &apos;t know what the goal is .
it could be , say , a us- american power plant , or a chemical plant in germany .
so we should soon figure out what the goal is .
so we extracted and decomposed the attack code , and we found that it &apos;s structured into two digital warheads -- a smaller one and a larger one .
and we also noticed that they were very professionally constructed by people who obviously had all the insider information available .
we have thousands of organisms that can do that .
they knew all the bits and bytes that they had to attack .
they probably knew the shoe size of the machine operator .
so they knew everything .
and if you &apos;ve already heard that the dropper of stuxnet is complex and high-tech , let me tell you , the user data is a science for itself .
it &apos;s much more sophisticated than anything we &apos;ve ever seen .
here you see an excerpt from this attack code .
we &apos;re talking about -- about 15,000 lines of code .
it looks a lot like old-fashioned assembler language .
and i want to tell you how we were able to get out of this code .
so what we were looking for first was system-functioning calls , because we know what they &apos;re doing .
her hunters could smell the urine of an animal from 40 steps away and determine what kind of animal it was .
these organisms can be totally dry , they can even live in the vacuum .
and then we looked for timers and data structures and tried to relate them to the real world -- with potential targets in the real world .
so we needed theories about these goals that we could take or disprove .
in order to make these theories , we remind ourselves that it &apos;s definitely high-level sabotage , it has to be a high-quality goal , and very likely it is in iran , because most of the infections have been reported there .
now , in this area , there are not several thousand goals .
it &apos;s basically going out to the bureaucracy nuclear power plant and the incentives in natance .
so i said to my assistant , &quot; take me a list of all the experts in centrifuge and power plants from our client tribe . &quot;
and i called her up and tapped her knowledge to compare her expertise to what we found in the code and in the data .
and that worked very well .
so , we were able to connect the little digital warhead to the rotor control .
the rotor is this moving part within the centrifuge , this black object that you see .
i &apos;m absolutely sure that life can exist and move in space , looking for aquatic conditions .
and if you manipulate the speed of this rotor , you &apos;re actually able to crack the rotor and eventually explode the centrifuge .
what we also found is that the goal of the attack was actually to let it happen slowly and secretly -- obviously in the attempt to make warehouse engineers desperate , so that they wouldn &apos;t be able to get past it quickly .
the great digital warhead -- we got a glimpse by looking at very precise data and data structures .
so , for example , the number of 164 is very sticky out of this code ; you can &apos;t overlook it .
i started working through scientific literature about how these centrifuge are built in natance , and found that they &apos;re structured in so-called cascades , and each cascade contains 164 centrifuge .
so that made sense , it fit together .
and it got even better .
these centrifuge in iran are divided into 15 so-called levels .
and guess what we found in the attack code ?
almost identical structure .
in fact , nasa has shown that there &apos;s a lot of it out there .
so again , that fit really well together .
and this gave us great confidence for the one that we studied here .
now , don &apos;t get me wrong , it didn &apos;t just go like that .
these results have been achieved by several weeks of hard work .
and often we just ran into a dead end and we had to recover .
anyway , we found that both digital warheads were actually heading for one and the same goal , but from different directions .
the little warhead takes over a cascade , and it turns the rotors and slows them down , and the big warhead comes in with six cascades in interaction and manipulates valves .
so , by and large , we &apos;re very confident that we actually determined what the goal is .
it &apos;s natance , and it &apos;s just natance .
so we don &apos;t have to worry that other goals could be hit by stuxnet .
here &apos;s a feature shot of the molecule that we made by using these processes -- actually , we just used hefi mechanisms with the right design of the pieces , we adjusted them , and yeast automatically assembles them .
here &apos;s something really cool stuff that we &apos;ve discovered -- has really taken me out of the socks .
there &apos;s the gray box down there , and on the top you see the centrifuge .
now , what this thing does is it catches the incorporating values of sensors -- so for example , printing sensors and vibration sensors -- and it provides legitimate code that &apos;s going on during the attack , with the wrong data .
and in fact , this false data of stuxnet has been recorded before .
so it &apos;s just like in hollywood , where , during the chase , the surveillance hunt is feeding the surveillance camera with the video .
that &apos;s cool , isn &apos;t it ?
the idea here , obviously , is not just overlists the machine operators in the control room .
in fact , it &apos;s much more dangerous and more aggressive .
the idea is to overlist a digital security system .
we need digital security systems where a human machine operator can &apos;t respond fast enough .
this is not an electron microscope , it &apos;s a regular microscope .
so in a power plant , for example , when the big steam turbine gets too fast , you have to open up unloaded valves within milliseconds .
of course , this can &apos;t be done by a human machine leader .
so at this point , we need digital security systems .
and when they &apos;re at risk , really bad things can happen .
the power plant can explode .
and neither the machine leaders , nor the security system will notice it .
that &apos;s scary .
but it gets worse .
and what i &apos;m saying now is very important .
think about it . this attack is generic .
it &apos;s such a big molecule that we can actually see it with the light microscope .
he has nothing to do with centrifuge , with uranization .
so for example , he would work just as well -- in a power station or in a car factory .
it &apos;s generic .
and you don &apos;t have to -- as the attacker -- you don &apos;t have to put the data on a usb key , as we saw in stuxnet .
you could also use ordinary worm technology to spread .
you just have to spread it as far as you can .
and when you do that , you end up with a cyber weapon of mass destruction .
this is the consequence that we have to face .
so unfortunately , the biggest number of goals for those attacks is not in the middle east .
they &apos;re in the united states , europe and japan .
this is six seconds of footage .
so all these green areas , these are the most targeted environments .
we have to face the consequences , and we &apos;re starting to prepare better .
thank you .
i have a question .
ralph , a lot of it was reported that people suspect that the mossad is the main organization behind it .
is that your opinion ?
okay , you really want to know that ?
yeah . okay .
in my opinion , the mossad is involved , but the driving force is not israel .
so the driving force behind this is the cyber superpower .
this is the publication that we just recently completed .
there &apos;s only one , and these are the united states -- fortunately , fortunately .
because otherwise our problem would be even bigger .
thank you for chasing us a fear of heating . thank you ralph .
i &apos;ve spent the last few years putting myself in situations that are usually very difficult and at the same time dangerous .
i went to jail -- hard .
i worked in a coal mining -- dangerous .
i filmed in war areas -- difficult and dangerous .
and i spent 30 days eating nothing but this -- fun at the beginning , a little bit hard in the middle , very dangerous at the end .
in fact , i &apos;ve spent most of my career on the appearance of terrible situations , and it &apos;s all for the attempt to study social security in a way that they &apos;re engaging and interesting , and hopefully understand what makes them fun and accessible to the audience .
so when i knew i was going to come here to look at the world of branding and sponsoring in a tedtalk , i knew i was going to do something a little bit different .
this is over 580,000 letters of genetic code . it &apos;s the largest molecule with defined structure ever created by humans .
some of you may have heard that a couple of weeks ago i turned on an ad on ebay .
i sent out some facebook news , some twitter news , and i gave people the opportunity to get the name rights at my tedtalk 2011 .
really , some happy people and companies , for-profit and non-profit , got the unique opportunity -- because i &apos;m sure chris anderson will never let that -- buy the name rights on the talk that you &apos;re just seeing , which didn &apos;t have a title or a lot of content or a lot of evidence of what the subject would be .
so what you got was this : your name presented here : my tedtalk , which you have no idea what the subject is going to be , and it could fly you around your ears , especially if i let your company stand there for your participation .
but besides that , it &apos;s a very good medial opportunity .
do you know how many people look at these tedtalks ?
a lot .
this is just the work title , by the way .
so despite this warning , i knew that anyone would buy the name rights .
now , if you had asked me this a year ago , i wouldn &apos;t have been able to tell you this with certainty .
it has a molecular weight of over 300 million .
but in the new project that i &apos;m working on , my new film , we &apos;re looking at the world of marketing , advertising .
as i said , over the years , i &apos;ve been in some pretty horrible situations , but nothing could prepare me , nothing could get me excited about going into something as difficult and as dangerous as these guys .
you know , i had the idea for a film .
what i want to do is make a film about product placement , marketing and advertising , where the whole film is funded by product placement , marketing and advertising .
and the film will be called &quot; the greatest film ever sold . &quot;
so what happens in &quot; the greatest film ever sold , &quot; is that everything , from the top to the bottom , is completely packed with brands -- from the cover sponsor you &apos;re going to see in the movie , this is the brand x .
now this brand , the qualcomm stadium , the stairs center ...
these people will be connected to the film in eternity -- forever .
and so the film will study this whole idea -- this is what ? in eternity , forever ?
i &apos;m a redundant person .
in the early &apos; 80s , i got a really amazing task when my professor at harvard asked me if i was interested in going to haiti and infiltrating the secret societies that were the foundation of the strength of duvalians and tonton macoutes and the poison that was used to make zombies .
if we were to print it with a writing size of 10 and without distances , it would encompass 142 pages just to print this genetic code .
that was more to emphasize .
it was &quot; in eternity , forever . &quot;
but we &apos;re not just going to have the brand x as a cover sponsor , but we &apos;re going to make sure that we &apos;re going to sell any category in the movie .
so we may sell a shoe , and it will be the greatest shoe you &apos;ve ever worn ...
the greatest car you &apos;ve ever driven from &quot; the greatest film ever sell , &quot; the greatest drink you &apos;ve ever had , a attention from &quot; the greatest film ever sold . &quot;
so the idea is , besides showing that brands are part of life , actually , to get them to fund the film ?
and we &apos;re actually showing the whole process of how it works .
the goal of the whole film is transparency .
you &apos;re going to see the whole thing going on in the movie of stats .
so this is the whole concept , the whole movie , from beginning to end .
now , how do we start a chromosome ? how do we activate it ?
and i would be happy if ceg was going to help make this happen .
you know , it &apos;s funny , because when i first heard it , it &apos;s the ultimate respect for the audience .
but i don &apos;t know how people are going to be reciprocal .
do you have a perspective -- i don &apos;t want to use &quot; perspective , &quot; because that has a negative connotation -- but you know how this is going to evolve ?
how much money is it taken to realize that ?
1.5 million .
i think it &apos;s hard to meet you , but i think it &apos;s definitely worth addressing some really familiar brands .
who knows when the film comes out , we might look like a horde vollidiot .
what do you think the answer is going to be ?
the answer will be extremely likely no .
obviously , with a virus , it &apos;s very simple . it &apos;s much more complicated to deal with bacteria .
but is it a hard thing to do about the movie or a difficult thing for me ?
jk : both .
... so , not so optimistic .
so , sir , can you help me ? i need help .
i can help .
okay .
fantastic .
we have to think about which brands .
yeah .
if you look at the people that you have to deal with ...
it &apos;s as simple if you do it in eukaryonts as we are : you just take the nucleus out and you put another one in , and that &apos;s exactly what you &apos;ve all heard about the cloning .
there are some places we can turn to .
put the camera out .
i thought , &quot; put the camera out of &quot; would mean that we wanted to have a backup conversation .
it turns out that it really meant , &quot; we don &apos;t want to have anything to do with your movie . &quot;
and just so all of these companies disappeared , one after the other .
no one wanted to have something to do with the movie .
i was amazed .
they didn &apos;t want to have anything to do with the project .
and i was confused , because i thought the whole concept of advertising was the idea of presenting your product to as many people as possible , making it as many people as possible .
especially in today &apos;s world , at this intersection of new and old media and the fragmented media landscape -- it &apos;s not the idea of being in this new exciting medium instrument that brings the masses this message .
in archaebacteria , the chromosome is integrated into the cell , but we &apos;ve just recently shown that you can take a complete transplant of a chromosome from one cell to the other and activate it .
no , that &apos;s what i thought .
but you see , the problem was that my idea had a fatal mistake , and that was the following .
in fact , no , that wasn &apos;t the mistake at all .
that wouldn &apos;t have been a problem at all .
that would have been okay .
but what this picture is for is a problem .
see , if you type in transparency in google search , this is -- this is one of the first images that appears .
i really like your kind , sergey brin . now .
that was the problem : transparency -- free of deception and bags , just to discover and look through ; immediately understood ; characterized by visibility and access to information , especially in terms of business practices -- the last line is certainly the biggest problem .
you know , we &apos;re hearing a lot about transparency right now .
we cleaned up the chromosome of a microbial species . roughly , these two are as far apart as humans and mice . we gave some extra genes to choose this chromosome . we decomposed it with enzymes to destroy all the proteins . and it was very amazing when we put it in a cell -- and they &apos;re going to estimate our very extended graphs here .
our politicians say it , our president says it , even our ceos say it .
but when it gets to the point where it &apos;s supposed to be implemented , something changes .
but why ? well , transparency is scary -- like this strange bear that still breaks .
it &apos;s unpredictable -- like this strange highway .
and she &apos;s also very risky .
what else is risky ?
a whole bowl of cool whip food .
this is very risky .
so when i started talking to companies and telling them that we wanted to tell this story , they said , &quot; no , we want you to tell a story .
we want you to tell a story , but we just want you to tell our story . &quot;
the new chromosome went into the cell .
you see , when i was a kid and my father caught me lying -- and he &apos;s sitting there looking at me -- he would say , &quot; my son , there are three versions in every story .
there &apos;s your version , there &apos;s my version , and there &apos;s the real version . &quot;
so you see , with this film , we wanted to tell the real version .
but since only one company , an agency was willing to help us -- and it was just because i know john bond and richard kirshentree for years -- i realized that i had to do it alone , i had to deal with the middle man and go right to the companies with my team .
so what they started to understand -- or what i started to understand -- was that when you start talking to these companies , the idea of how your brand is understood is a big problem .
i have friends making big , gigantic hollywood movies , and i have friends making little independent movies like me .
and my friends , who make big , gigantic hollywood movies , say that the reason their films are so successful is because of the brand partners they have .
and then my friends , who make little independent movies , say , &quot; well , how do we compete with these big , gigantic hollywood movies ? &quot;
and the film is called &quot; the greatest film ever sell . &quot;
so how exactly are we going to see ban in the movie ?
in fact , we thought this was the end , but we tried to get the process a little bit further .
every time i get on the way , and whenever i open the medical closet , you &apos;ll see ban deodorant .
and every time i interview somebody , i can say , &quot; are you fresh enough for this interview ?
are you that far ? you look a little nervous .
i want to help you calm down .
so maybe you should put a little bit of this before the interview . &quot;
and then we &apos;re offering one of these great grids .
either floral fusion or paradise winds , you &apos;ll have the choice .
we &apos;re going to be equipped for both men and for women -- solid , roll-on , or a stick , whatever .
this is the short socket .
now i can answer all of your questions and give you an extraordinary census .
this is the main mechanism of evolution here .
we &apos;re a smaller brand .
as you &apos;ve talked about the smaller movies , we &apos;re a challenge as a brand .
so we don &apos;t have a budget like other brands .
so doing these things -- you know , people remember ban -- that &apos;s kind of why we &apos;re interested .
in what words would you describe ban ?
ban is blank .
that &apos;s a great question .
legendary technology .
technology is not the way you should describe something that someone is doing under the axes .
we &apos;re talking about bold , fresh .
we find all kinds of species here that have taken a second chromosome or a third of any kind , every time thousands of characteristics , to one species in just a second .
i think &quot; fresh &quot; is a great word that this category really makes something positive , as opposed to &quot; fight smell and moisture . &quot;
it keeps you fresh .
how can we keep them fresh longer -- better fresh , more fresh , three times more fresh .
these things have a more positive effect .
and this is a million-company .
what about me ? what about the printing press ?
i have to talk to the guy on the street who is like me , otto normal consumers .
you &apos;re supposed to tell me something about my brand .
how would you describe your brand ?
well , my brand ?
to make sense of this sensation , of course , i had to know something about this remarkable belief of vodoun and voodoo is not a cult of black magic .
so people who think of evolution as a gene that &apos;s going to change at a time has missed a lot of biology .
i don &apos;t know .
i really like beautiful clothes .
in the &apos; 80s , revival hits skate points , except the wash day .
all right , what &apos;s the brand gerry ?
unique .
i think the genre , the style i have , is probably &quot; dark glamour . &quot;
i like a lot of black colors , a lot of gray notes and stuff like that .
but usually i have an accessories , like sunglasses , or a jewelry and stuff like that .
if dan were a brand , he would probably be a classic mercedes cabrio .
the brand that i am is , i would say , is a valid fly .
there are enzymes called restriction enzymes that are actually digesting dna .
woman 2 : partly hippie , partly yogi , partly brooklyn girls -- i don &apos;t know .
i &apos;m the museum guy .
i sell schmuseum animals all over the country , around the world .
so i think that &apos;s my brand .
this is my brand in my little , distorted industry .
man 4 : my brand is fedex because i was exposed .
man 5 : brand failed alcohol addicted writer .
is that possible ?
lawyer : i &apos;m a lawyer &apos;s brand .
i &apos;m tom .
the chromosome that was in the cell doesn &apos;t have any ; the chromosomes that we &apos;ve added .
well , we can &apos;t all be the tom-brand , but i often see myself at the intersection of dark glamour and the valid fly .
and what was noticed was that i needed an expert .
i needed somebody who could get inside my head , somebody who could really help me understand what they call &quot; brand personality . &quot;
and so i found a company called olson zaltman in pittsburg .
they &apos;ve helped companies like nestle , fatty , hallmark , to discover this brand personality .
if they could do it for those , they could certainly help me .
they brought their pictures , right ?
this is what i have . the first picture is a picture of my family .
just tell me a little bit about how that connects to your thoughts and feelings about you .
these are the people who shape my worldview .
it was expressed in the cell , and it recognized the other chromosome as a foreign material , and so at the end we only had one cell with a new chromosome .
tell me about this world .
md : this world ? i think your own world is the world you live in -- like people around you , the friends , the family , the way you live your life , the work and so on .
all of these things come and start from a place , and for me , they come and start with my family in west virginia .
what &apos;s the next thing you want to talk about .
next . this was the most beautiful day of my life .
what &apos;s the context of the thoughts and feelings about yourself ?
it &apos;s the way i &apos;d like to be .
i like things that are different .
i like things that are weird . i like strange things .
tell me about the &quot; why &quot; phase -- what does it bring us ?
it was colored blue because of the genes that we had added .
what &apos;s the machete ? what puppetry are you in right now ?
why is it important to reboot ? what is the red ?
tell me a little bit about this part .
a little bit more about you , not you .
what other metamorphosis did you go through ?
... that doesn &apos;t have to be fear . what kind of rollercoaster are you in ?
eeeeee ! no , thank you .
thank you for your patience .
yeah . all right .
yeah , i don &apos;t know what it &apos;s going to be like .
and after a very short period of time , it had lost all the characteristics of species and converted to a new species based on the new software that we put into the cell .
there were a lot of crazy things going on .
the first thing i saw was this idea that their brand personality has two separate pages , but the supplementary pages -- the morgan spurlock brand is an eighth / playful brand .
they &apos;re doing very well .
and i think there &apos;s almost a contradiction with that .
and i think some companies will just focus on a strength , rather than both of them .
a lot of companies tend to -- and this is human nature -- avoid things they &apos;re not sure , they &apos;re going to avoid fear , these elements , and they &apos;re going to welcome these , and they &apos;re actually turning them into something positive for themselves , and this is a skilled chess .
what other brands are doing ?
the first is a classic , apple .
and you can also see it here , target , wii , mini of mini coopers and jetblue .
well , there are playful brands and eight brands , these things that come and go , but one playful brand , eight brand is a pretty strong thing .
all the proteins changed the membranes -- when we read the genetic code , it was exactly what we transferred .
an eight , playful brand . what &apos;s your brand ?
if somebody asked you to describe your brand identity , your brand personality , how about it ?
are you an up-attribute ? are you something that brings blood into whales ?
or are you more like a down attribute ?
are you something a little bit quieter , more reserved , more conservative ?
up-attribute are things that are playful , fresh prince , timely , adventurous , exhausted and lovely like erol flynn , agile and agile , professional , glorious , magical and mystical like gandalf .
or are they more like a down attribute ?
are you mindful and mondenn like 007 ?
are they established , traditionally , nurturing , protective , compassionate like oprah ?
are you reliable , stable , family , secure , born , sacred , suspicious of the dalai lama or yoda ?
it may sound like genomic alchimie , but we can , by shifting software dna , change things quite dramatically .
in the course of the film , we had more than 500 companies that were up and down companies who said no because they didn &apos;t want to be part of the project .
they didn &apos;t want to have anything to do with this film , because they had no control , no control over the finished product .
but it &apos;s going to find 17 brand partners who were willing to give up on this control , who wanted to do business with someone as eight and as playful as i did , and who eventually enabled us to tell stories that we couldn &apos;t usually tell -- stories that a commercial would usually never have supported .
they enabled us to tell the story of neuromarketing , as we tell the story in this film , that you &apos;re using mris today to pills the funeral centers of the brain , both to make advertising and to make movies .
we went to sao paulo , where outdoor advertising has been banned .
in the entire city , there has been no timeline , no posters , no flyer , nothing .
and we drove in school districts , where companies are getting their way into impoverished schools , across america .
the incredible thing for me is that the projects that i got the most feedback , or where i succeeded , are the ones where i interacted with things directly .
and that &apos;s what these brands did .
because they went around the middle man , they went around the agencies , and they said that maybe the agencies don &apos;t really have their interest in mind .
now i &apos;ve argued that this is not the genesis -- this is based on 3.5 billion years of evolution .
i &apos;m going to negotiate with the artist directly .
i &apos;m going to work with him and create something completely different , something that makes people think that our worldview is challenging .
and what was that for you ? what was it successful ?
well , since the film had premiered at the sundance film , we can look at this .
according to burrale , the premiere was in january , and since then -- and this is not even the whole thing -- there were 900 million calls from this film .
this is actually just two and a half weeks worth of time .
this is just online -- no press , no television .
the film hasn &apos;t been delivered yet .
it &apos;s not even online . it &apos;s not streaming .
he hasn &apos;t come out in other countries yet .
and i &apos;ve argued that we may be able to create a new form of cambrian explosion in which there could be massive new species education based on this digital design .
well , finally , the film got a very big momentum .
and that &apos;s not bad for a project where almost every advertising agency that we talked to , recommended to their clients to have the fingers .
one of the things that i believe in is that when you take your opportunity , you take risks , you have opportunities in those risks .
i think if you keep people from it , you get them closer to failure .
i think that if you train your employees to avoid risk , you &apos;re preparing the whole company to get a profit .
i feel like we have to encourage people to take risks as they move forward .
we need to encourage people not to be afraid of opportunities that they might be afraid of .
finally , as we move forward , we should welcome fear .
we should put the bear in the cage .
welcome the fear . welcome the risk .
on the contrary , it &apos;s a complex metaphysical view of the world .
why should we do that ?
one big spoon at a time , so we &apos;re welcoming the risk .
and finally , if we can welcome transparency .
today , more than ever before , a little bit of honesty brings us very far .
and that said , with honesty and transparency , my whole talk is &quot; welcome transparency , &quot; was presented to you by my good friends of emc who paid 7100 dollars for the name rights at ebay .
big data is transformed for organizations around the world into big opportunities .
emc presents &quot; welcome transparency . &quot;
thank you .
now , morgan , on behalf of transparency , this : what happened to the $ 7100 ?
that &apos;s a great question .
i have a check in my pocket put on the top organization of the ted organization , the sapling foundation -- a $ 7100 check to fund my ted performance in the next year .
i think it &apos;s pretty obvious in terms of what we need .
my name is amit .
18 months ago , i did something else at google , and i started to do something with museums and art , and my boss , who is now , gave me green light .
and it took 18 months .
a lot of fun negotiations and stories , i can tell you , with 17 very interesting museums from nine countries .
but i &apos;m going to focus on the performance .
there &apos;s a lot of stories about why we &apos;ve done this .
i think my personal view is very simple with this slide and its access .
i grew up in india .
i became a great education -- i don &apos;t complain -- but i had too many museums and these works of art .
when i then traveled , and visiting these museums , i started learning a lot .
we &apos;ve grown from six and a half to nine billion people in the next 40 years .
and while i was working for google , i was trying to make this desire -- to make art more accessible -- with technology .
we then formed a team , a great team , and we started with this .
i &apos;m going to start with the demonstration , and tell you some interesting things that happened since the launch .
so you just go to google project.com .
you can look around here in all these museums .
there &apos;s uffizi , the moma , the hermitage , the rijks , the van gogh .
i even come to one of my favorite , the metropolitan museum of art in new york .
you come in two ways -- very simple .
click , and wumms , you &apos;re in this museum .
it doesn &apos;t matter where you are -- bombay , mexico , it doesn &apos;t matter .
to put it in my context , i was born in 1946 .
you go around and you amuse yourself .
you want to orient in the museum ?
open the map , and jump with a click .
in there they are , they want to go to the end of the gang .
just on . a lot of fun .
hive them .
thank you , but the best part is still coming .
so now i &apos;m in front of one of my favorite images , harvest workers from pieter breugel in the met .
i see this record .
when the museum gave us the picture , they click on it .
today , three people on this planet are for everyone who has existed in 1946 ; within 40 years , it will be four .
now this is one of the images .
this is all metadata .
those of you who are really interested in art can click here -- but i click this away now .
this is one of the images that we &apos;ve captured with what we call the gigapix technology .
this picture , for example , has about 10 billion images points , i think .
and a lot of people ask me , &quot; what do you get for 10 billion images ? &quot;
this is what i &apos;m going to show you .
you can zoom in and out very easily .
you see something fun here .
i love this guy ; his expression is unaffordable .
we have problems with food , with fresh and clean water , medicine , 6.5 billion people fuel .
but then you really want to go deep .
and so i started playing around , and i realized there was something going on there .
and i thought , &quot; wait a minute , that sounds interesting . &quot;
i got close , and i slowly realized that these kids actually beat something .
i did a little bit of research , and i talked to some people at met , and i actually found out that it was a game called squail , where a gans is beaten on a stick on the fast tuesday .
apparently it was quite popular .
i don &apos;t know why they did it , but i learned something about it .
to really get close , you can go up to the cracks .
just to give you the overview , i zoom out so you can see what you get .
here we were , and this is the painting .
it &apos;s going to be a challenge for nine .
but the best part is -- in a second .
let &apos;s jump quickly to moma , again in new york .
another favorite picture of me , star night .
the previous example was about finding detail .
but what if you want to see the brush strokes ?
and what only if you want to see van gogh make this masterpiece ?
you zoom in . you can actually go in .
i &apos;m going to zoom in on one of my favorite parts of this picture until i &apos;m really in the cracks .
this is star night , probably never seen that way before .
now i &apos;m going to show you my favorite function .
we need over five billion tons of coal , 30-plus billion barrels of oil . that &apos;s a hundred million barrels a day .
there are many others , but i don &apos;t have time .
this is the really cool part , it &apos;s called collections .
each of you , every -- whether rich or poor , whether you have a great house -- doesn &apos;t matter .
you can go and create your own museum online -- from all these images , you can make your own collection .
very simply , you go in -- and i created this , it &apos;s called the power of the zoom -- you can zoom in .
this is &apos; the healing , &apos; in the national allery .
you can see everything with remarks , send to your friends , and start a conversation about what you feel when you look at these masterpieces .
i think , finally , the main thing for me is that all the wonderful things don &apos;t come from google .
they don &apos;t even come from the museums , i think .
i shouldn &apos;t say that .
when we think about biological processes , or any process to replace that , it becomes a huge challenge .
they come from the artists .
and that was an experience in humility for me .
i mean , i hope we &apos;re going to talk about this digital medium of art and represent it properly online .
and the biggest question i &apos;m asked recently is , &quot; did you do this to replicate the experience of a museum visit ? &quot;
the answer to that is no .
it &apos;s to add the experience .
that &apos;s what it &apos;s all about . thank you .
thank you .
this is a representation of your brain . your brain can be divided into two halves .
this is the left half , which is the logical side , and then the right half , which is the intuitive side .
then , of course , there &apos;s all the co2 from this material that ends up in the atmosphere .
if we had a scale to measure the aptitute of every hemisphere , we could represent your brain .
for example , this would be somebody who is completely logical .
this would be somebody who is completely intuitive .
now , where would you put your brain on this scale ?
some of us may have decided for one of these extremes , but i think for most people in the audience , your brain looks something like this -- with a high aptitute , which is at the same time in both hemispheres .
it &apos;s not like they &apos;re both exclusive or something like that .
you can be logical and intuitive .
and so i think of myself as one of the people , along with most other experimental quantum physicists , who need a good percentage of logic to put the complex ideas together .
but at the same time , we need a good percentage of intuition to actually do experiments .
how do we develop this intuition ? well , we love to play with things .
it &apos;s interesting .
we now have , from our discoveries around the world , a database of about 20 million genes , and i want to believe that these are the design components of the future .
so we go out and play with it , and then we look at how it reacts , and then we start to develop our intuition .
they &apos;re basically doing the same thing .
so one of the intuitions that you &apos;ve developed over the years is probably that one thing can only be in one place at the same time .
i mean , it can sound strange to think that one thing at the same time is in two different places , but they were not born with this idea , they developed it .
i remember seeing a child playing on a floor threshold .
he was a little kid , and he wasn &apos;t very good at it , and he was always falling .
but i bet he taught him to play with the floor threshold a very valuable lesson , which is that big things don &apos;t just leave you by , and that they stay in one place .
and this is a great conceptual model of the world , as long as they &apos;re not a particle physicist .
it would be a terrible model for a particle physicist , because they don &apos;t play with the soil pigs , they play with these little strange particles .
and when you play with your particles , you find all kinds of weird things -- like you can fly directly through walls , or you can be in two different places at the same time .
the electronics industry had a dozen components , and look at the diversity that came out of it .
and so they wrote down all these observations , and they called the theory of quantum mechanics .
this was the state of physics a few years ago ; it took quantum mechanics to describe the little , tiny particles .
but it didn &apos;t take them to describe the big everyday objects around us .
that didn &apos;t like my intuition , and maybe just because i don &apos;t play with particles so often .
well , i play with them sometimes , but not very often .
and i &apos;ve never seen them .
i mean , nobody has ever seen a particle .
but my logical side didn &apos;t like it either .
because if all things are made of particles and all these particles follow the rules of quantum mechanics , shouldn &apos;t it just follow all the rules of quantum mechanics ?
i see no reason why it shouldn &apos;t be that way .
we &apos;re primarily bumping into the limits of biological reality and the frontiers of our imagination .
so i would feel strongly better about the whole thing if somehow we could show that everyday objects also follow the rules of quantum mechanics .
so a few years ago , i set out to do that .
i created one .
this is the first object you can see , which was in the quantum mechanical superposition .
so what we &apos;re looking at here is a tiny computer chip .
and you can see this green dot there in the middle .
this is the piece of metal i &apos;m going to talk about in a moment .
this is a picture of the object .
here i &apos;m going to scale it up . we &apos;re going to look at the center right here .
and here &apos;s a really big close-up of this little piece of metal .
we have technology today because of these fast synthesia methods to do what we call combinatorial genetics .
so what we &apos;re looking at is a little piece of metal that &apos;s shaped like a springboard , and it &apos;s over the edge .
so i did this thing in a similar way that you make a computer chip .
i went to a clean room with new silicon slices , and i rocked for 100 hours on all the big devices .
for the last little bit , i had to build my own machine -- to get this kind of swimming pool shaped hole and the thing .
this thing has the ability to be in the quantum mechanical superposition , but it takes a little help to do it .
look , let me give you an analogy .
you know how uncomfortable it is to be in a full elevator ?
i mean , when i &apos;m alone in the elevator , i do all kinds of weird things , but then other people go up , and i &apos;m listening to all these things because i don &apos;t want to harm them , or , frankly , they &apos;re disappearing .
so quantum mechanics says that unmoving objects feel the same way .
the fellow drivers for unmovable objects are not just humans , but also the light that appears to you and the wind that passes through you and the heat of space .
we now have the ability to build a large robot that can make millions of chromosomes a day .
and so we knew that if we wanted to see that this piece of metal behaved quantum mechanically , we had to throw out all the other people .
and then we did .
we turned the light off , we put it in a vacuum , and we sucked out all the air , and we cooled it up until almost now , all by itself in the elevator , the piece of metal was free to behave whatever it wanted .
so we measured his movement .
we found that it &apos;s really strange .
instead of just lying there , it vibrated . the way it vibrated was sort of like this -- like an expanding and coherent bubble balg .
in which we gave him a little push , we could make it vibrate at the same time and not vibrate -- something that &apos;s only allowed in quantum mechanics .
so what i &apos;m going to tell you right now is something really fantastic .
what does it mean for an object at the same time to vibrate and not to vibrate ?
let &apos;s think about the atoms .
if you imagine making these 20 million different genes or optimizing these processes to make octan or drugs new vaccines , we can change more molecular biology with a single team than the last 20 years of science .
so the first case : all the trillions of atoms that make up the piece of metal are still there , and at the same time the same atoms are moving up and down .
just too precise time points , you agree .
for the rest of the time , they &apos;re delocalized .
that means that every atom at the same time is in two different places , which at the same time means that the whole piece of metal is in two different places .
i think that &apos;s really cool .
really .
that was worth closing in the clean space for all this year , because , check that , the difference between a single atom and this piece of metal is about the same as the difference between the play of metal and you .
so if a single atom can be in two different places at the same time , that piece of metal can be in two different places , why not them ?
i mean , that &apos;s just what my logical side says .
so , imagine you were in a number of places at the same time , how would that feel ?
and it &apos;s just times selection . we can select for life &apos;s ability to produce chemicals or fuel production vaccine and so on .
how would your consciousness be about your body being delocalized in the room ?
there &apos;s another aspect of history .
when we warmed it up , turned on the light and looked in the box , we saw that the piece of metal was always there in a piece of metal .
and so i had to develop this new intuition that it looks like all the objects in the elevator are actually just quantum objects that are made together in a small room .
you hear a lot of talk about how quantum mechanics says that everything is connected to everything .
well , that &apos;s not quite right .
there &apos;s more to it . it &apos;s even deeper .
it &apos;s like these connections , your connections with all the things around you , literally define who you are , and that &apos;s the profound and strange of quantum mechanics .
thank you .
in 2007 , i decided that we should reconceptualize how we think about economic development .
this is a photograph of actual design software that we &apos;re working on , that you &apos;re actually sitting with , and you know new species on the computer .
it should be our goal that if families think about where they live and work , they will be able to choose between at least one hand of different cities that all compete for new residents .
right now , we &apos;re far from this goal .
there are billions of people in developing countries who don &apos;t even have a single city that they would welcome .
but the amazing thing about cities is that they &apos;re worth so much more than it costs to build them .
so we could make the world very simple with dutzing , maybe even hundreds of new cities .
now this may sound absurd to you , as far as you &apos;ve never thought about new cities .
just swap out the building of apartments against the cities .
imagine that half of the people who want to live in apartments already did that ; half didn &apos;t yet .
you could try to expand the capacity of the existing apartments .
but you know what you &apos;re going to be relying on , in these apartments and their surroundings , there are laws to avoid and distract from the degradation .
you know , we don &apos;t necessarily know what it &apos;s going to look like . we know exactly what their genetic code is going to look like .
so it turns out that it &apos;s very hard to get all these extensions .
but you could go to a completely new place , build a whole new block of housing , provided that the laws there would support such a construction and not prevent it .
so i proposed that governments create new areas that provide enough space for a city and gave them a name : charter cities .
later , i found out that about the same time , jafour and octavio , were thinking about the challenge of reform in honduras .
they knew that every year about 75,000 hondurans left their country to go out to the united states , and they wanted to know what they could do to make sure that these people could stay in their country and do exactly the same thing in honduras .
at this point , jafour said to octavio , &quot; what happens if we take an unsettled surface of our country -- what if we just put it on a message -- part of the american embassy ; some of the canadian bottlenecks , and if people want to go to work under the canadian rules , or the united states , they can work there , and can do everything on the surface of these messages that usually would have to go to canada or america ? &quot;
in the summer of 2009 , honduras suffered under a severe prescription crisis .
in the next planned elections , pepe lobo won in a turnaround , whose program promised both innovation and simplification .
he asked octavio to become his steady .
in the meantime , i was preparing for a talk at tedglobal .
we &apos;re now focusing on the fourth generation fuels .
by improving , testing and investigating consumers , i &apos;ve tried to reduce this complicated concept of charter city to the essential elements .
the first thing is the importance of laws , laws that determine that you can &apos;t disturb existing housing owners .
we &apos;re giving new technologies great attention , but for progress , it needs technologies and laws , and it &apos;s usually laws that keep us back .
in the fall of 2010 , a friend from guatemala octavio sent the link to the tedtalk .
again , he showed him jafour .
the two called me .
and he said , &quot; let &apos;s present this to the chairman of our country . &quot;
so in december , we met in the meeting room of a hotel in miami .
i &apos;ve tried to make it clear how valuable cities are , how much more valuable they are than they cost .
and i used this graph to show how valuable rohland is in a place like new york , and remember that in some cases , a surface is worth thousands of dollars per square meter .
we have to deal with the unstoppable separation of death , and so it shouldn &apos;t surprise us that we all sing , dance and create art .
if i asked you to count the great world religions , what would you say ?
you &apos;ve seen corn to ethanol recently , which is just a bad experiment .
but it was a pretty abstract discussion , in a place where there was a pause , octavio said , &quot; paul , maybe we could look at the tedtalk . &quot;
so the tedtalk , in a very simple form , represented that a charter city is a place where it is in the beginning of uninhabited land , a founding contract that determines the laws that exist there and gives people the opportunity to decide either to live or not .
that &apos;s why i was asked by the president of honduras , who meant that we have to do this project , that it &apos;s important , and that this is the way we &apos;re going to bring our country forward .
i was asked to come to tegucigalpa and give a talk again on the fourth and fifth of january .
so i gave another talk filled with facts that included a graph like this , which tries to illustrate that if you want to make a lot of value in a city , it has to be a very large city .
this is a picture of the city of denver , and the sketch is the new airport that was built in denver .
this airport alone has a surface of 100 square kilometers .
so i &apos;ve tried to convince the hondurans to build a new city , if you want to start with an area of at least 1,000 square kilometers .
that &apos;s more than 250 thousand acres .
politely , everybody applauded .
we have fuels of the second and third generation that will come out relatively soon that will have much higher sugar skills , like octan or different kinds of butanol .
the audience &apos;s faces were very serious and careful .
the head of the congress came onstage and said , &quot; professor romer , thank you very much for your talk , but maybe we could look at the tedtalk .
i &apos;ve got him here on my laptop . &quot;
so i sat down , and they played the tedtalk .
and i &apos;ve come to the point that a new city offers new possibilities to people .
there would be the opportunity to live in a city that would be in honduras instead of hundreds of miles away in the north .
and a new city includes new opportunities for leaders .
the leaders of the government in honduras would depend on the help of partnership countries , they could benefit from their partnerships , who they would support in the creation of the laws for this charter and in the implementation that everybody can trust that the charter is really being implemented .
and the insight of president lobo was that the certainty of the implementation that i &apos;ve been thinking about as a way to get the foreign investors to come in and build this city in the same way for all the parties in honduras that have been suffering for many years .
we went into an area .
but , as we think , the only way that biology will have a huge impact on the increase in the cost of food or the limitation of its availability is when we see co2 as a starting material , and so we work on cells that go that way .
this picture is from this place .
it &apos;s a thousand square kilometers .
and shortly after that , on january 19th , they voted in congress for a change in constitution to have a regime that is reliable for specialized development areas .
in a country that has just been in a severe crisis , congress was elected for this change in fiction with 124 to a voice .
all parties , all the questions of society , supported this .
but to become part of the constitution , it has to be approved twice by congress .
on february 17th , it was approved to be a voice for the second time with 114 .
immediate after that election , between february 21 and 24th , a delegation of about 30 famine traveled to the two places in the world that were most interested in getting into the business of city .
one place is south korea .
this is a picture of a big , new city center that was built in south korea -- big as the city center of bostons .
and we think we &apos;re going to be the first ones with fuels of the fourth generation , and in about 18 months .
everything you can see in this picture was built within four years after it took four years to get the permits .
the other place that was very interested in urban construction is singapore .
there have been two cities built in china already , and the third is in preparation .
so if you think about it practically , it &apos;s where we are today .
they already have a building site , and they &apos;re already mentioning this area for the second city .
it &apos;s already been working on a legal system that managers are allowed to participate , and it &apos;s also working on an external legal system .
a country has already offered to provide its supreme court as a court for the decent occupation of the court there .
also , urban designers and construction are very interested .
they even bring in funding .
one thing , as you already know , has been declared , there &apos;s a lot of rent .
sunlight and co2 are a method .
there are a lot of businesses that would like to be in america , especially in a place with a free trade zone , and there are a lot of people who would like to live there .
around the world , there are 700 million people who say that they want to live permanently in a different place .
a million people leave latin america every year and migrate to the united states .
many of them are fathers who are forced to leave their families behind to look for work -- sometimes they &apos;re single mothers who have to make enough money to be able to afford food and clothes .
unfortunately , sometimes even children who are trying to find their parents , who , in some cases , have not seen them for a decade .
so what is it for an idea to think about in honduras to build a whole new city ?
or even building stupid of these cities , or distributing hundreds of them around the world ?
so what is it for an idea to insist that every family has a choice between several cities that are competing for new residents ?
this is an idea worth spreading .
my friends from honduras asked me to say , thank you ted .
but in our discovery of the world , we have all kinds of different methods .
do you know how many decisions do you make on a typical day ?
you know how many decisions do you make in a typical week ?
i did a poll recently with over 2,000 americans , and the average number of decisions that , according to a typical american , is 70 .
in addition , a recent study was done with ceos , where they were watching the ceos for a week .
and these scientists have simply documented the different topics that these ceo were dealing with , and how much time they spent making decisions that relate to the topics .
and they found that an average ceo is dealing with 139 tasks a week .
each of these topics , of course , was made up of many , many smaller decisions .
50 percent of their decisions were made in nine minutes or less .
only for about 12 percent of their decisions did they take an hour or more of their time .
think about your own decisions .
this is an organism that we described in 1996 .
do you know how many decisions you make in the nine minutes of category versus those in the one hour of category ?
how good do you think you &apos;re in dealing with the decisions ?
today i want to talk about one of the biggest decision-making problems of our modern time , the decision-making problem .
i want to talk about the problem and some possible solutions .
now , when i talk about this problem , i &apos;m going to ask you some questions , and i want to know your answers .
if i ask you a question , raise your hand , because i &apos;m blind , just by hand , if you want to burn some calories .
otherwise , i ask you , if i ask you a question , and your answer is yes , so my first question for today is : are you ready to hear about the decision overload problem ?
thank you .
when i was a graduate student at stanford university , i went to this very exclusive grocery store ; at least he was really exclusive .
it was a store called draeger &apos;s .
it lives in the deep sea , about a mile and a half deep , at almost boiling water temperatures .
this business , it was almost like a pleasure savings .
they had 250 different kinds of mustard and vinegar and over 500 different kinds of fruits and vegetables and more than two dozen different kinds of water -- and that was at a time when we actually drank the water .
i loved going to this business , but at one point , i wondered , well , how come you never buy anything ?
here &apos;s the olive oil gang .
they had over 75 different kinds of olive oil , including those who were locked in boxes that came from thousands of years of old olive trees .
so one day i decided to go to the filialleiter , and i asked the leader , &quot; does this model work that you really give people all these possibilities ? &quot;
and he pointed to the bus charges of tourists who came every day and usually had their cameras on it .
we decided to do an experiment , and we chose marmelade for our experiment .
here &apos;s her marmelade gang .
they had 348 different kinds of marmelade .
it converts co2 into methane using hydrogen as an energy source .
we &apos;ve set up a little bit of a cost check right at the entrance of the business .
we &apos;ve put six different flavors of marmelade or 24 different flavors of marmelade , and we &apos;ve looked at two things : one , i guess what case would keep more people standing and try marmelade ?
there are more people left when they were 24 , about 60 percent , when they were six , about 40 percent .
and after that , we looked at what case people were more likely to buy a glass of marmelade .
now we saw the reverse effect .
of the people who were standing , when it was 24 , only three percent actually bought a glass of marmelade .
of the people who were standing when it was six , well , now we saw that 30 percent of them actually bought a glass of marmelade .
now , when you do the math , people bought six times more of a glass of marmelade , who did you have six choices than if you had 24 choices .
now , deciding not to buy a glass of marmelade is probably good for us -- at least it &apos;s good for our waistline -- but it turns out that the decision overload problem affects us in very consequence decisions .
we don &apos;t choose to , even though it &apos;s against our own best interests .
we &apos;re looking at whether we can use stored co2 , which could just be brought to production stores , converting the co2 into fuel to power this process .
so on the subject of the day , financial savings .
i &apos;m going to describe to you now a study that i did with gur huberman , eme kamenica , wei jang , where we looked at the decision to save decisions for the retirement of almost a million americans from about 650 plans across the united states .
and what we looked at was whether the number of fondsans that were possible for a retirement plan , the 401 plan , that influenced the probability of saving more for tomorrow .
and what we found was that there was actually a relationship .
so in these plans , we had about 657 plans that would offer people something between two and 59 different fonds .
and what we found was that the more fund they were offered , that , in fact , the less participatory rate was .
now , if you look at the extremes , the plans that two fonds offered , had a participation rate in the &apos; 70s -- still not as high as we want .
in the plans that offered almost 60 fonds , the participation rate now dropped to about the sixth percentage .
now it turns out that even if you &apos;re going to be able to participate , if there were more options for choice , even then , it has negative consequences .
so the people who decided to participate , rather than the fact that the more possibilities they were available , the more they rented it , the more they chose it .
christianity , islam , buddhism , judaism , whatever .
within a short period of time , we think we could be able to solve one of the fundamental questions of life .
the more possibilities they were available , the more they put all their money in pure financial accounts .
none of these extreme decisions , is one of the decisions that someone would recommend when we care about their future financial well-being .
now , in the last 10 years , we &apos;ve seen three basic negative consequences in humans that are providing more and more choices .
they &apos;re pushing the decision -- push it up , even when it comes to their own best interest .
they make worse decisions -- worse financial and worse medical decisions .
they &apos;re more likely to decide for things that they make themselves less satisfied , even if they make it objective better .
the main reason for this is that maybe we enjoy looking at these huge shelves full of mayonaise , mustard , essig and marmelade , but we can &apos;t actually take the comparison and the boundaries and then actually choose something from the fantastic deal .
so what i want to suggest to you today is four simple techniques -- techniques that we &apos;ve tested in different ways and different research sites -- that you can just apply in your business .
first of all , narrow .
you &apos;ve heard it before , but it &apos;s never been more true than today , that less is .
you know , we really have -- modern goals like replacing the whole petrochemical industry . right . if you couldn &apos;t do that at ted , where else ? a main source of energy .
people are always worried when i say , &quot; limited . &quot;
they &apos;re always worried that they &apos;re losing real estate .
but in fact , we &apos;re seeing it more and more , that if you &apos;re willing to confine , and the unimportant equal possibilities are going to get rid of , well , there &apos;s a increase in sales , there &apos;s a cost that &apos;s going to be reduced , and there &apos;s an improvement in decision perception .
when proctor and gamble reduced the different head and shoulder species from 26 to 15 , they experienced a 10 percent increase in sales .
when the golden cat corporation got rid of her 10 worst selling cat streus , they saw that the profits went up 87 percent -- a result of both the sales and the reducing of cost .
you know , the average supermacrt today is offering you 45,000 products .
a typical walmart today offers you 100,000 products .
but the ninth largest supermarket today is aldi , and they &apos;re only offering you 1,400 products -- a kind of tomato sauce in doses .
now in the world of savings , i think one of the best examples that have recently come to the market about how to best mandate the choices , was something that david laibson has very strongly designed , it &apos;s a program that &apos;s been offered at harvard .
every single harvard employees now automatically participate in a lifetime fund .
but in the same way , we &apos;re working on using the same approaches to develop vaccines .
those who really want to make a choice are offered 20 fund , not 300 or more fund .
you know , people often say , &quot; i don &apos;t know how to limit it .
it &apos;s all important opportunities . &quot;
and the first thing i do is i ask the question , &quot; tell me how the possibilities are different from each other .
and if your employees can &apos;t keep them apart , your customers can &apos;t either . &quot;
now , before we started lunch today , i had a conversation with gary .
and gary said that he would be willing to offer an all-time vacation to the world &apos;s most beautiful road to all the people in this audience .
here &apos;s a description of the road .
and i want to read them to you .
and now i &apos;m going to give you a few seconds to read you , and then i &apos;m going to ask you to clap , if you &apos;re willing to take on gary &apos;s offer .
you saw it this year with flu , we &apos;re always on the back of the year , and we have a dollar too little when it comes to the right vaccine .
okay . anybody who &apos;s ready to take gary &apos;s offer .
are they all ?
well , let me show you a little bit more of this .
they knew it was a trick , right ?
well , who &apos;s ready for this journey .
i think i may have heard more hands .
all right .
the fact is that you &apos;re looking at objectively , the first time you had more information than the second time , but i would dare to guess that you felt the second time more real .
because the images made it feel more real to them .
which brings me to the second technology that helps you deal with the problem of decision-making overlap , which is concretization .
i think that can be changed by creating recombined vaccines in advance .
it &apos;s about the fact that people have to understand the difference between the possibilities , understand what the consequences are associated with the individual possibilities , and that these consequences have to be felt vivid and concrete .
why do people spend , on average , 15 to 30 percent more on an ec-map or a credit card than on barmoney ?
because it doesn &apos;t really feel money .
and it turns out that if you make it feel concrete , it &apos;s a very good tool to get people to save more .
so in a study that i did with shlomo benartzi and alessandro previtero , we did a study with the people at ing -- employees who all worked for ing -- and these people were all in a gathering where they signed up their participation for their retirement plan .
and during this gathering , we &apos;ve left this gathering just as it always was , just as we &apos;ve added a little thing .
the little thing that we &apos;ve added is that we &apos;ve asked people to just think of all the positive things that would happen in their lives if they were saving money .
in which we did this simple thing , there was a 20 percent increase in participation , and there was a rise in the number of people who were willing to save , or a four percent increase in the amount they were willing to pay for the savings accounts .
third technology : categorization .
we can do better with more categories than with more choices .
this is what the future might look like with changes , can now be accelerated with the evolutionary tree with synthetic bacteria , archaes , and perhaps eukaryonts .
here , for example , is a study that we did in a magazine class .
it turns out that in the way supermarkets up and down in the northeast , the number varies between 331 different kinds of magazines up to 664 magazines .
but you know what ?
if i show you 600 magazines , and i split them into 10 categories , or i show you 400 magazines , and i split them into 20 categories , you believe that i gave them more choice and a better choice than i would have given them 400 over if i had given them 600 .
because the categories tell me how to keep them apart .
here are two different jewelry facilities .
one is called jazz , and the other one is called swing .
if you think the left ad is swing , and the ad on the right is jazz , you clap your hands .
okay , there &apos;s a couple .
if you think it &apos;s on the left side of jazz and the one on the right is swing , please clap .
we &apos;re light-years from improving people , and our goal is just that we have a chance to survive long enough to possibly do that . thank you .
okay , a few more .
well , it turns out they &apos;re right .
the one on the left is jazz , and the one on the right is swing , but you know what ?
this is a highly unuseful categorization scheme .
the categories have to say something to the voter , not to which it provides the choice .
and you often see this problem when you look at the long lists of all these fonds .
who do you really want to inform with this ?
my fourth technology : requirement for complexity .
it turns out that we can actually deal with more information than we think we just need to simplify it .
we need to increase complexity slowly .
at the last ted conference , i gave an introduction to the lhc .
i &apos;m going to show you an example of what i mean .
let &apos;s take a very , very complicated decision : the purchase of a car .
here &apos;s a german car manufacturer that gives you the opportunity to completely configure your car .
you have to make 62 different decisions to completely design your car .
now these decisions are different in the number of choices that they offer per decision .
car color , foreign color of the car -- i have 56 options .
motors , gears -- four possibilities .
what i &apos;m doing now is i &apos;m changing the order in which the decisions are coming .
half of the customers are going to go from the many possibilities , 56 autocolors to the small possibilities , four gears .
the other half of the customers go from the small possibilities , the four gears , to the 56 autocolors , many options .
and i promised to come back to tell you how the machine works .
what do i look at ?
how interested they are .
if you &apos;re always using the standard choice in the decision , that means that you &apos;re overwhelmed , the healthiest , i lose it .
what you find is that the people who go from the many to the low choice ponds over and over and over again choose the standard choice .
we lose them .
go from the little choice to the many , then stay there .
it &apos;s the same information . it &apos;s the same number of possibilities .
the only thing i &apos;ve done is to change the order in which this information is presented .
when i start with the simple beginning , i learn how to choose .
even though the gear is choosing , i &apos;m not talking about my preferences in the inner equipment , it &apos;s still preventing me to choose .
so now it is . and for those of you who weren &apos;t there at the time , the lhc is the largest scientific experiment ever attempted -- 27 kilometers in diameter .
i &apos;m also excited about the big product that i put together , and so i &apos;m willing to get motivated to be interested in this .
let me summarize .
i &apos;ve told you about four techniques that mimic the problem of decision-making -- limited -- get rid of the obsolete alternatives ; concrete -- make it real ; categorize -- we can handle more categories , fewer options ; prepare for complexity .
each of these techniques that i &apos;m going to describe to you today is to help you manage the possibilities -- good for you , you can use them for yourself , good for the people you provide service .
because i think the key to the best possible choice is that you &apos;re picky in the choice .
and the more we &apos;re picking and choosing , the better we &apos;re going to be able to practice the art of choice .
thank you .
hi . i &apos;m kevin allocca , trends-managers at youtube . i look at youtube videos .
that &apos;s true .
today we want to talk about how video is viral , and then we want to talk about why this is important at all .
a continent is always left out , because the assumption was that in sub-saharan africa , there was no religious faith . of course , there was one , and voodoo is simply the remnant of this very deep religious thought that occurred during the tragic diaspora of slavery time .
his job is to create the conditions that existed less than a billionth of a second after the universe began -- and that &apos;s up to 600 million times in a second .
we all want to be stars -- celebrities , singers , comedians -- when i was young , it seemed so infinite .
but web videos have allowed us all , or all of our creative activities , to become incredibly famous in a part of the culture of our world .
every single one of you could be famous on the internet to the next saturday .
but in youtube , more than 48 hours of video is uploaded every minute .
again , only one tiny percentage ever gets viral and is looked at thousands of times and so on to the cultural moment .
so how does this work ?
three things : tastemaker , participatory communities and unexpected .
well , then we want to .
oh my god . oh my god .
oh my god !
it &apos;s just breathtaking ambition .
whoa !
ohhhhh , wowwwwwww !
last year , bear vasquez sent this video that he had filmed before his house in yosemite national park .
in 2010 , it had been looked at 23 million times .
this graph shows what it looked like when the video was first popular last summer .
in fact , bear didn &apos;t want to make a viral video .
he just wanted to share one rainbow .
because that &apos;s how you do it when you &apos;re called yosemite mountain bear .
he had uploaded a lot of natural videos .
and this video had actually been sent in january .
this is the machine below geneva .
what happened here ?
there was jimmy kimmel .
jimmy kimmel ended the tweet who ended up making the video so popular .
because tastemaker like jimmy kimmel introduces us to new and interesting things and show a big audience .
it &apos;s friday , friday . gotta get down on friday . everybody &apos;s looking forward to the weekend , weekend . friday , friday . gettin &apos; down on friday . she wouldn &apos;t have thought we were going to have this conversation without talking about this video , i hope .
rebecca blacks &apos;s &quot; friday &quot; is one of the most popular videos of the year .
it &apos;s been looked at almost 200 million times this year .
this is what the graphics looked like .
just like &quot; double rainbow , &quot; it seems to have come out of nowhere .
what happened that day ?
we &apos;re taking pictures of these mini-big bangs in detectors .
well , it was friday , that was true .
if you want to know , these other spikes are also fridays .
but what about that day , that particular friday ?
well , tosh.0 gave it up , a lot of blogs started writing about it .
michael j. nelson at the mystery science theater was a first person to make a joke on twitter .
what &apos;s important is that a single person or group of tastemakers took a point of view , shared with a big audience , and accelerated the process .
then this community of people who shared this big insider joke and started talking about it and playing with it .
now there are 10,000 parodies from &quot; friday &quot; to youtube .
in the first seven days , there was a parody for every single day of the week .
unlike the one-sided conversation of the 20th century , the participation of the community is our way to become part of this phenomenon -- either by spreading it or making something new .
this is what i work on . it &apos;s called the atlas detector -- 44 meters wide , 22 meters in diameter .
nyan cat is animation and music in endless loop .
that &apos;s it , very simple .
this year , it was looked at almost 50 million times .
and if you think that &apos;s crazy , you should know that there &apos;s a three-hour version of this that &apos;s been looked at four million times .
even cats watch this video .
cats look at cats looking at this video .
it &apos;s important , the creativity that exists in the internet culture of techie and geeks .
there were remixes .
somebody made an old-fashioned version of it .
and then it became international .
here &apos;s a spectacular picture of the atlas in the construction so you can see the scale .
a whole remix community shot out of the ground , making it from a stupid joke to something that we can all participate in .
today , we don &apos;t just find pleasure in something , we &apos;re participating .
who could have anticipated all this ?
who could have predicted double rainbow or rebecca black or nyan cat ?
what scripts would you have been able to write in which it &apos;s so pressed ?
in a world where every minute video is uploaded , only truly unique and unexpected can emerge as the videos i mentioned .
i admit , i wasn &apos;t particularly interested when a friend told me to watch this great video , about a guy protesting in new york against bicycles .
i got a ticket because i didn &apos;t go on the bike lane , but often there are disabilities that don &apos;t let you drive on the bike lane .
since that was completely surprising and humorous , casey niestats was looked at his argument five million times .
this approach is true for everything new that we do creatively .
on september 10 , last year , the machine was running for the first time .
and all of this leads to the one big question ...
what does that mean ?
ohhh .
what does that mean ?
tastemaker , creative participants , completely unexpected , are the characteristics of a new kind of media and culture that everybody has access to and in which the audience determines popularity .
as i said , one of the biggest stars right now -- justin bieber -- started with youtube .
no one has to give your ideas green light .
and today we all feel ourselves as owners of our pop culture .
and these are not the features of old media , and they &apos;re not going to meet the media of today , but they &apos;re going to determine the conversation of the future .
thank you .
and this picture was taken by atlas .
the story is not over yet .
it &apos;s a puzzle that &apos;s still put together .
i want to tell you about some of the puzzle bits .
imagine the first piece : a man who burns his life &apos;s work .
he &apos;s a poet , a writer , a man whose whole life has been held together by the simple hope of oneness and freedom of his home .
keep him in mind with the march of the communicators in saigon , as he has to admit that his life had been a single waste .
the words , as long as his friends , were now spotting his .
he moved back to silence .
he died , broken by history .
it caused immense jewelry in the control room .
he &apos;s my grandfather .
i never met him personally .
but our lives are so much more than our memories .
my grandmother never let me forget his life .
i had to make sure it wasn &apos;t free , and it was my job to learn that history was trying to crush us , but we were over it .
the next puzzle part shows how a boat is running in the early morning &apos;s red light at sea .
my mother may was 18 when her father died -- already in an arranged marriage , already with two little girls .
for her , life had given her a task : the escape of her family and a new life in australia .
it was completely excluded that it could fail .
after a four-year-old and filmmaker , saga glitt took a boat to the sea , as a fishing boat .
it &apos;s a picture of the first radiation particle that went all the way around the lhc , and then deliberately collided with a part of the lhc to make a rain of particles prank on the detector .
all adults were aware of the risks .
they were scared of pirates , rape and death .
like most adults on the boat , my mother was carrying a little poison bottle .
when i took a prisoner , first my sister and i , then you and my grandmother would have drunk away .
my first memories are from this boat -- the steady tuckers of the engine , the clapping of every wave on the bug , the wide and empty horizon .
i don &apos;t remember the pirates that came many times , but they were fooled by the death of men on our boat , or the decrease of the engine that six hours didn &apos;t want to start .
but i remember the lights of the oil platform off the malayan coast , and the young man who collapsed and died , the end of the journey was too much for him , and the taste of the first apple that one of the men gave me on the platform .
no apple ever tasted like this again .
after three months in a refugee camp , we ended up in melbourne .
and the next piece of the puzzle is about four women in three generations that together build a new life .
but what makes voodoo so interesting is this vivid relationship between the living and the dead .
in other words , when we saw this picture on september 10 , we knew that the machine works , which is a big triumph .
we settled down in footscray , one of the working-class suburbs , whose population is made of immigrant layers .
unlike in the old-fashioned middle class suburbs , whose existence was completely unknown to me , there was no sophisticated thinking in footscray .
the smells from the ladder bars came from the rest of the world .
and the fat broken english were traded between people who had one thing in common : they started to be new .
my mother was working on farms , then on a assembly line in a car factory , six days , double-layers .
she managed to find the time to acquire english and it qualifications .
we were poor .
every dollar was given , and it was put in further education for english and mathematics , no matter what we had to do it , and most of the time , the new things that always came from the second hand .
two straps for school , each one , to cover the holes in the other .
a school uniform till the buttons , because it had to be six years old .
i don &apos;t know if this made the biggest juble , or this is when someone went to the google side and found the front page like this .
and there were the rare but painful choirs of &quot; close eye , &quot; and here , and there &apos;s a transformation paintings : &quot; asian , go home . &quot;
home where ?
something went up in me .
there was a meeting for reconciliation , and a quiet voice said , &quot; i &apos;m going to go out of your way . &quot;
my mother , my sister and i slept in the same bed .
my mother was exhausted every night , but we told each other about our day , and we listened to the movements of our grandmother in the house .
my mother was suffering from the boat with nightmares .
and it was my job to stay awake every night until their nightmares came so i could wake them up .
she opened a computer business , then made a cosmetic education and opened a business .
and the women came with their stories about men who didn &apos;t make the change , angry and unflexible , and cared about children , trapped between two worlds .
it means that we have a cultural impact next to the scientific .
loans and sponsors were searched .
centers were built .
i lived in parallel worlds .
in one , i was the classic asian student who provided unquestionable demands to himself .
in the other hand , i was involved in unsafe life , wearing tragic scars of violence , drug abuse and insulation .
but so many got help over the years .
and because of this help , i was chosen in my last year of law school as a young australian of the year .
and i was catapulted by a piece of puzzle to the next , and the edges didn &apos;t fit together .
tan le , anonymous inhabitant of footscray , was now tan le , refugee and social activist , who was invited to speak in places she had never heard of , and in homes that she could never have imagined .
i was not familiar with the label .
about a week later , there was a problem with the machine that had to do with these wires -- these golden wires here .
i didn &apos;t know how to use the bribe .
i didn &apos;t know how to talk about wine .
i didn &apos;t know how to talk about anything .
i wanted to go back to the routine and the convenience of life of an unknown precedent -- a grandmother , a mother and two daughters who have graduated each of their days as they have for 20 years by telling and sleeping each other &apos;s stories , we still have three in the same bed .
i told my mother i couldn &apos;t do that .
she reminded me that i was now as old as she was when we climbed the boat .
no , no , never had been an opportunity .
&quot; just do it , &quot; she said . &quot; and don &apos;t be what you are . &quot;
so i talked about youth unemployment and education , and the neglect of the marginalized and calculated .
and the more open i spoke , the more i should tell .
these wires lead 13-thousand ampere when the machine runs on high performance .
i met people in all habitats , so many of them did what they loved , lived on the limits of the possible .
and even though i graduated from school , i realized that i couldn &apos;t find myself with a career in jura .
there had to be another puzzle piece .
and i realized at the same time that it &apos;s okay to be an outsider , a new buzz , a new one in the picture -- and not just okay , but something that you have to be grateful for , maybe a gift of the boat .
because belonging can lead so easily to the collapse of the horizon , it can mean so easily that you accept the assumptions of the environment .
i &apos;ve gone out of my comfort zone now to know that , yes , the world is breaking apart , but not the way you fear it .
possibilities that would not have been allowed have been explicitly encouraged .
there was an energy , an unquestionable optimism , a strange mixture of humility and daring .
so i followed my gut feeling .
i collected a small team of people around me , for whom the boxes are not going to be a disgusting challenge .
now , the engineers of you will look at them and say , &quot; no , no , you don &apos;t . these are little wires . &quot;
for a year , we didn &apos;t have a cent .
at the end of every day , i was cooking a giant pot of soup that we shared .
we worked till late at night .
most of our ideas were crazy , but it was a few brilliant people , and we made the breakthrough .
i made the decision to move to the u.s .
after just one journey there .
my gut feeling again .
three months later , i was moved , and the adventure continued .
before i close the talk , i want to tell you about my grandmother .
she grew up at a time when confucianism was the social norm and the local mandarin the most important person .
they can do that because if you cool them down very far , they become so-called superconductors .
life hadn &apos;t changed for centuries .
her father died shortly after her birth .
her mother raised her alone .
at 17 , she became the second woman of a mandarin whose mother beat her .
without her husband &apos;s support , she worried for a sensation by bringing him to court and advocating her own case , and a bigger sensation than she won .
&quot; don &apos;t go , &quot; it turned out to be untrue .
i was just shooting in a hotel room in sydney when she died , 1,000 miles away in melbourne .
i looked through the shower wall , and i saw them standing on the other side .
i knew she had come to say goodbye .
my mother called me a few minutes after that .
so at minus 271 degrees , colder than the room between the stars , these wires can hold the tension .
a few days later , we went to a buddhist temple in footscray and sat around their sarg .
we told her stories and assured her that we were still with her .
at midnight , the monk came and said he had to close the sarg .
my mother asked us to touch her hand .
she asked the monk , &quot; why is your hand so warm and the rest of her is so cold ? &quot;
&quot; because you &apos;ve been holding it this morning , &quot; he said .
&quot; they didn &apos;t let go of them . &quot;
if there &apos;s a band in our family , it &apos;s going to run through the women .
you can see who we were and how life shaped us , now we can see that the men who might have come into our lives would have come into our way .
the defeat would have been too simple .
in one of the connections , between more than a thousand magnets in the lhc , there was a factory defect .
now i &apos;d like to have my own children , and i &apos;m still thinking about the boat .
who would ever wish one ?
yes , i &apos;m afraid of privilege , of ease , of adversity .
can i give you a bug in your life , which is courageously drifting every wave , the uncontributed , steady tuckers of the engine , the vast horizon that doesn &apos;t guarantee anything ?
i don &apos;t know .
but if i could give this and make it safe , i would do it .
and also , tans &apos;s mother is in the fourth or fifth row here today .
i &apos;m here to share my photography with you .
is it photography at all ?
because , of course , this is a picture you can &apos;t take with your camera .
so all of a sudden , the wires are heating slightly , and 13-thousand ampere encounters suddenly encountered electrical resistance .
and yet , my interest in photography started when i got my first digital camera at the age of 15 .
i combined it with my earlier preference for drawing , but it was a little bit different , because using the camera , the process was actually in planning .
and if you take a picture with a camera , the process ends when you press on the trigger .
so for me , photography seemed to be more about being in the right place at the right time .
i thought everybody could do that .
so i wanted to create something else , something where the process begins when the trigger is pressed .
photos like this : a building site along a much more sophisticated road .
but it has an unexpected twist .
and still maintaining a realistic level .
or photographs like this -- dark and colorful at the same time , but all with the common goal of keeping a realistic level .
the living giving birth to the spirits .
this was the result .
when i say reality , i mean photoreality .
because , of course , she &apos;s not something that you can really catch , but i always want to make it look like she could have done it in a photograph .
photographs where you have to think for a moment to figure out the trick .
so it &apos;s more about capturing an idea than really a moment .
but what is the trick that makes it look realistic ?
is it all about the details or the colors ?
is it about light ?
what creates the illusion ?
sometimes the perspective is the illusion .
but ultimately , it &apos;s about how we interpret the world , and how it can be made tangible on a two-dimensional surface .
now , all of this is even more impressive when you imagine that the magnets weigh over 20 tons and shifted by about 30 inches .
it &apos;s not about what &apos;s realistic , but what we think is realistic .
so i think the basics are very simple .
i see them as a puzzle of reality , where you can take different pieces and put them together to create an alternative reality .
and let me show you a simple example .
we have three perfectly imaginable physical objects that we can all identify with in a three-dimensional world .
but in a certain way , combined with each other , you can create something that still looks three-dimensional as if it could exist .
but at the same time , we know that that &apos;s not possible .
so we &apos;re overlisting our brains , because our brain just doesn &apos;t accept that it doesn &apos;t really make sense .
and i see the same process in combining photographs .
it &apos;s really just about combining different realities .
so we damaged about 50 of the magnets .
so the things that make an image look realistic , i think it &apos;s the things we don &apos;t think about , the things around us in our everyday lives .
but when we combine photographs , it &apos;s really important to think about it , because otherwise they just look wrong .
so i would say that there are three simple rules to follow in order to achieve a realistic outcome .
as you can see , these are not three special images .
but you can combine something special like this .
so the first rule is that combined photos should have the same perspective .
secondly , photographs should have the same type of light .
and these two images meet these two demands -- shot from the same altitude and the same type of light .
third , it &apos;s about making it impossible to tell where the individual images start and end by connecting them seamlessly .
makes it impossible to say how the photo was actually put together .
and they had to remove what we did .
so by adding color , contrast and brightness to the edges to the individual images , photographic deprivation , how deep , degraded colors and disorders , we wipe the boundaries between the different images and make them look like a single photograph , even though a picture can basically contain hundreds of levels .
here &apos;s another example .
you might think that this is just a landscape , and the bottom part was manipulated .
but this picture is actually completely composed of photographs of different places .
i personally find that it &apos;s easier to create a place than to find a place , because you don &apos;t have to have a compromise with the ideas in your head .
but it requires a lot of planning .
and when i had this idea in the winter , i knew it took me several months to plan it , to find the different places for the pieces of the puzzle .
for example , the fish had been taken on a flying trip .
the bank is from a different place .
the underwater part comes from a quarry .
we reconstructed them , repaired them .
and yes , i even put the house up on the top of the island in red to make it look more swedish .
so to get to a realistic outcome , i think it &apos;s going to go out of my way to planning .
i always start with an idea , an idea .
and then it &apos;s about the combination of the different images .
and here , every piece is very well planned .
and if you take good images , the result can be pretty beautiful , and also pretty realistic .
so all the tools are there , and the only thing that limidates us is our imagination .
thank you .
i &apos;d like to talk to you about why so many electronic health projects fail .
and i think the most important thing about this is that we &apos;ve stopped talking to our patients .
you &apos;re all on your way back now .
and one of the things that we did at radboud university was to hire a major listener .
it &apos;s not particularly scientific -- it &apos;s a cup of coffee or tea , and it &apos;s asking the patients , families , relatives , &quot; how do you do ?
how can we help you ? &quot;
and we think we want to think that this is one of the main problems why everyone -- maybe most of the electronic health projects are missing : because we &apos;ve stopped listening .
this is my wlan-waage . it &apos;s a very simple thing .
it &apos;s got a button , on / off .
and every morning , i jump on it .
and yes , i have a task , as you may recognize .
i did my job at 95 kilos .
it works very simply : every time i jump on the scale , it also sends my data to google health .
by the end of march , the lhc will be again functional .
and there they &apos;re called off my general doctor , so he can see where my weight problem is , not only the moment i need cardiology support or something , but also with a look at the past .
but there &apos;s something else .
you may know that , i have over 4,000 followers on twitter .
so every morning , i jump to my wireless guard , and people are talking to me before i sit in the car , &quot; for lunch , just a little salad today , lucium . &quot;
but this is the nicest thing that can happen , because this is the peer pressure , group forced to help patients , because this could be used against obesity , or it could be patients getting smoking .
but it could also be used to get people out of their chairs and get them to play together some kind of game to better control their health .
next week , this is coming to the market .
there &apos;s going to be this little blood pressure device that you put on an iphone or something .
and it will allow people to measure their blood pressure from home , send it to their doctor , and share it with others , for example , for a little over 100 dollars .
at this point , the patients come in , not only can they take control , they can be captain on their own ship , but they can also help us with the health care that we face , and the cost explosion of health care , double-demand , and so on .
we &apos;re going to turn it on , and we &apos;re going to expect to be able to collect first data in june or july , and continue our journey to figure out what the building blocks of the universe are .
make methods that are easy to use and start hugging patients on the team .
and they can do that by doing that , but also by crowdsourcing .
and one of the things we &apos;ve done is i want to share with you through a short video .
we have all the navigation systems in our cars .
maybe even in our cell phones .
we know exactly where all the atms are around maastricht .
we know another one where all the gas stations are .
and sure enough , we can find fast food chains .
but where would the next aed be to help this patient ?
we asked around , and no one knew .
well , of course , in a way that kind of accidents like this , again , the debate about the value of science and engineering on these boundaries is easy to reject .
nobody knew where to find the next life-saving aed at that moment was .
so , what did we do ? we did crowdsourcing in the netherlands .
we built a website and asked a crowd of people , &quot; if you see an aed , please share with us where he is , &quot; because sometimes he &apos;s closed in business , of course .
and over 10,000 aeds have been reported in the netherlands .
the next step was to find the apps for this .
and we created an ipad app .
we &apos;ve developed an app for layar , augmented reality to find these aeds .
and if you &apos;re in a city like maastricht and someone &apos;s collapsing , you can use your iphone , and in the next few weeks , your microsoftware cell phone to find the next aed that can save lives .
and today , we want to do this not just as aed4u , as the product is called , but also as aed4us .
and we want to take this to a global level .
i think the fact that it &apos;s so hard to take the fact that we reach beyond our limits is the value of things like the lhc .
and we ask our colleagues around the world , from other universities , to help us behave like nodes , to crowdsource these aeds around the world .
and if you &apos;re on vacation and someone collapses , whether it &apos;s your own relationships or anyone else , you can find an aed like this .
the other thing we want to ask for is that companies around the world are helping us to confirm these aeds .
these could be copiers , or technicians , for example , just to make sure that the reported aed is still in its place .
please help us do this and try to improve health , not just to take control of it .
thank you .
today i &apos;m going to talk about unexpected discoveries .
i work in the solar technology industry .
and my little startup wants us to make an environmental protection by making it ...
... pay attention to crowdsourcing .
the spirits can be conspired by under the great water , answers to the rhythm of dance , to displace the soul of the living temporary , so that the acolyth becomes the acolyth for a brief shining moment to the god .
i &apos;m going to leave my final words to an english scientist . humphrey davy , who , i think , when he defended the useless experiments of his teaching , his apprentice was michael faraday , said , &quot; nothing is so dangerous for the development of the human mind as to assume that our scientific ideas are final , that there are no mysteries in nature that our triumphs are full , and that there are no new worlds to conquer . &quot;
here &apos;s a short video of what we &apos;re doing .
oh . a moment .
it may take time for it to be invited .
now -- we can just jump this -- i &apos;m just going to jump over the video instead ...
no .
this is not ...
okay .
solar technology is ...
oh , my time has been over ?
okay . thank you very much .
thank you .
so a few years ago , i started a program to get the stars in technology and design to take a year off and work in an environment that &apos;s pretty much everything that they actually hate , we let them work in government .
the program is called &quot; code for america , &quot; and it &apos;s kind of like the peacekeepers for geeks .
we choose some fellows every year , and we let them work with city administrations .
instead of sending them to the third world , we &apos;re going to send them to ratherners .
and there they developed great apps , worked with urban workers .
but what they really do is to show what is possible today with technology .
so you meet al .
al is a hydrant in the city of boston .
here it looks like he &apos;s looking for a date , but what he &apos;s really looking for is somebody who &apos;s freed him up when he &apos;s locked in , because he knows he &apos;s not very good at the fire fight when he &apos;s covered by a meter of snow .
how did he get to look for help in this particular way ?
i &apos;m a writer .
we had a team of fellows in boston last year , the code for america program .
they were there in february , and it did a lot of work last february .
and they realized that the city never swallows these hydrants .
but one particular fellow , a man named erik simpels-ober , noticed something else , and that was that the residents freed up the sidewalks right in front of these parts .
so he did what any good developer would do , he wrote an app .
it &apos;s a nice little app where you can adopt a hydrant .
you agree with him to sniff when it snows .
if you do that , you can give him a name , and he called the first al .
if you don &apos;t do that , somebody can take it away .
so there &apos;s a nice little game dynamic .
writing books is my job , but , of course , it &apos;s more than that .
this is a humble little app .
it &apos;s probably the smallest of the 21 apps that the fellows wrote last year .
but it does something that no other government technology does .
it &apos;s spreading rapidly .
there &apos;s this guy in the i.t. section of the city of honolulu who has seen that he could use this app , not for snow , but for the citizens of tsunami sirens .
it &apos;s very important that these tsunami sirens work , but people steal the batteries .
so he got the citizens to test them .
and then seattle decided to use the app to get the citizens to clean the clogged gullys .
and chicago has just introduced them so that people can release the buckers when it &apos;s snowing .
we now know nine cities that are planning to use this app .
it &apos;s also my great , lifelong love and fascination .
and it &apos;s spread frivolously , organic , of course .
if you know something about government technology , you know it doesn &apos;t usually work that way .
it usually takes a few years to create software .
we had a team working on a project in boston last year that took three people two and a half months .
it was about a method that parents can figure out which ones are the right public schools for their children .
we were told later that if it were to go through the normal channels , it would have taken over two years , and it would have cost over two million dollars .
and that &apos;s nothing at all .
there &apos;s a project right now in california that the taxpayer has cost two billion dollars , and it doesn &apos;t work .
and there are projects like this at every level of government .
so one app that &apos;s written in a couple of days , and then it spreads from rarity , is kind of a shot before the bug on the institution of the government .
and i don &apos;t expect that to ever change .
it shows how government could work better -- no longer like a private company , how many people think it should be .
and not even like a technology company , but rather like the internet itself .
and that means free access , that means open and productive .
and that &apos;s important .
but more importantly , the app is that it represents a new generation that tackles the government &apos;s problem -- not as the problem of the institution that &apos;s needed , but as a problem of collective action .
and that &apos;s a very good news , because it turns out we &apos;re very good at collective action with digital technology .
now there &apos;s a big community of people who are making the tools that we need to make things effectively together .
it &apos;s not just &quot; code for america &quot; fellows , there are hundreds of people all over the country who stand up and write government apps every day in their own communities .
they didn &apos;t give up the government .
they &apos;re terribly frustrated with her , but they &apos;re not complaining about it , they &apos;re repairing it .
however , recently , something weird has happened in my life and my career that has led me to completely rethink my relationship to this work .
and these people know something that we &apos;ve lost from the eyes .
and that &apos;s when you forget all your feelings about politics and the snake at work , and all the other things that we &apos;re really excited about , is government , at the core , in the words of tim o &apos;reilly , &quot; what we do together , that we can &apos;t do alone . &quot;
today , a lot of people have given up the government .
and if you &apos;re one of those people , i &apos;m going to ask you to think about it because things are changing .
the politics doesn &apos;t change ; the government is in change .
and because the government ultimately exhausts the power of us -- remember , &quot; we the people ? &quot; -- as we think about it , will affect how this change will happen .
i didn &apos;t know very much about government when i started this program .
and like many people , i thought the government was mainly about voting people into a office .
now after two years , i &apos;ve come to the conclusion that it &apos;s all about community rats .
this is the call center for service and information .
this strange event was that i recently wrote a book -- a biography called the atee , pray , love -- which , unlike all of my previous books , for some reason , went out into the world and became a big mega-event , international bestseller thing .
that &apos;s where you usually come out when you call in your city 311 .
if you ever have a chance to work in your urban call center , like our fellow scott silverman , as part of the program -- in fact , they all do -- you &apos;ll see that the people who call the government for a lot of different problems , including a marsupial rat is in your house .
so scott gets this fruit .
he &apos;s typing &quot; thylacine &quot; into the official database .
and he doesn &apos;t really have an idea . he starts with the animal beginner .
and finally , he says , &quot; look , can you just open all the doors in your house and play very loud music and see if the livestock is smashing ? &quot;
and that worked . applause for scott .
but that wasn &apos;t the end of the thylacines .
boston doesn &apos;t just have a call center .
it has an app , a web and cell phone app , called citizens connect .
the result is that , no matter where i &apos;m coming from , i &apos;m treated as if i was refused to the demise .
we didn &apos;t write this app .
this is the work of very smart people at the office of the new urban mechanics in boston .
one day -- this is an actual report -- came in : &quot; thylacine in my trash bin . can &apos;t tell if it &apos;s dead .
how do i get it away ? &quot;
but what happened to citizens connect is different .
scott talked from human to human .
but on citizens connect , it &apos;s all public , so everyone can see it .
and in this case , it saw a neighbor .
and the next entry that we got was , &quot; i went over there , found the trash bin behind the house .
thylacine ? yes . alive ? yap .
seriously -- the demise !
turned the trash bin on the side . went home .
good night , sweet marsupial rat . &quot;
pretty simple .
this is great . this is where the digital is hitting the physical .
and it &apos;s also a good example of how the government is getting crowdsourcing .
but it &apos;s also a great example of government as a platform .
and i don &apos;t necessarily mean a technical definition of the platform here .
i &apos;m talking about a platform for people to help themselves and help others .
a citizen helped another citizen , but the government played a central role here .
they connected these two people .
and the voodoodos like to say , &quot; you know , you go to church and you talk about god .
for example , you &apos;re very concerned about me and you say , &quot; don &apos;t you fear you &apos;re never going to overcome this success ?
and you could have connected them to national services if they had been needed , but a neighbor is a much better and cheaper alternative to national services .
if one neighbor helps the other , we strengthen our communities .
let &apos;s call the animal beginner , it costs a lot of money .
one of the most important things is that we have to remember that government is not the same as politics .
and most people understand that , but they think one is the input of the other .
that our contribution to the system is choice .
how many times have we chosen a political leader -- and sometimes we &apos;ve used a lot of energy to choose a new political leader -- and then we reject , and we expect the government , reflects our values and fulfills our needs , and then not much has changed ?
this is because the government is like a further ocean , and politics is the top 15 inches .
and what &apos;s below that is what we call bureaucracy .
and we use this word with such contempt .
are you not afraid that you will continue your whole life and never create a book that anyone in the world cares about ? never again ?
but it &apos;s this contempt that makes this thing that we own , and that we pay for , be something that works against us , something else , and then we made ourselves .
people seem to think that politics is sexy .
if we want this institution to work for us , we have to make bureaucracy sexy .
because that &apos;s where the actual government work is happening .
we have to rely on the machine of government .
so the occupythesia movement did it .
did you see these guys ?
it &apos;s a group of troubled citizens who wrote a very detailed 325 page report , which is an answer to the sec-memo about the financial reform legislation .
this is not being politically active , this is bureaucratic .
well , for those of us who have given up the government , it &apos;s time that we think about it , the world that we want to leave our children behind .
okay , that &apos;s really encouraging .
you have to imagine the enormous challenges that they have to face .
do we really believe that we can do what we need to do without improving the institution that can act on behalf of all of us ?
a government is absolutely necessary , but it needs to be more efficient .
the good news is that technology makes it possible to fundamentally reframe the function of government in a way that can actually achieve something by strengthening society .
and there &apos;s a generation that &apos;s grown up with the internet , and it knows that it &apos;s not that hard to do things together , you just have to build the right systems .
now the average age of our fellows is 28 , so i &apos;m , unfortunately , almost one generation older than most of you .
this is a generation that grew up seeing her voice for granted .
they &apos;re not fighting this battle that we &apos;re all fighting about who &apos;s allowed to speak ; they &apos;re all allowed to speak .
you can make your mind on every channel at any time , and you do it .
so when they &apos;re faced with the problem of government , they don &apos;t care so much about using their voices .
but it would be worse if i didn &apos;t remember that over 20 years ago , when i first told a teenager that i wanted to be a writer , i was faced with the same kind of anxious response .
they use their hands .
they use their hands to write applications that improve government work .
and these apps let us use our hands to improve our communities .
this may be to unlock a hydrant , to hunt uncranes , to turn a trash can with a marsupial rat .
and sure enough , we could have released these hydrants all the time , and a lot of people do .
but these apps are like little digital memories that we &apos;re not just consumers , and we &apos;re not just consumers of government who pay taxes and receive services .
we are more than that , we are citizens .
and we &apos;re not going to improve government until we improve citizenship .
so the question i have for all of you here : when it comes to the big , important things that we have to do together , all together , are we going to be just a lot of voices , or are we going to be a lot of hands ?
thank you .
people said , &quot; are you not afraid to never succeed ?
usually my role is to explain to people how wonderful the new technologies that have come up are going to be , and i thought , since i &apos;m here with friends , i would tell you what i really think , and also try to look back and understand what &apos;s going on here , with these incredible jumps forward , which is so fast that we can barely keep up .
i &apos;m going to start by showing you a single , boring slide for a moment .
... could you just show the slide for a second .
this is a slide i randomly chose from my folder .
it &apos;s not about the details of the slide , it &apos;s about the general form .
this slide shows data from an analysis of us about the performance of risc processors compared to the performance of a local area network .
the interesting thing here is that this slide , like some others , which we often meet in our field , is kind of on a semi-logarithmic curve .
in other words , every step here is the equivalent of the performance scale .
and this is a novelty that we have to use this guy scale on semi-logarithmic curves in the field of technology .
something very strange happens here .
are you not afraid that the humiliation of a decrease is killing you ?
this is basically what i &apos;m going to talk about here .
so , if you could turn on the light again .
a little bit more bright , because i &apos;m going to draw something on the paper here .
now , why do we draw graphs in technology on semi-logarithmic curves ?
the reason for that is , if i were to draw it on a normal curve , where , say , these are the years , the timeline of a kind , and this is a random measure of technology that i want to show with a graph , then the graph is going to be silly .
they look like this .
and that doesn &apos;t tell us much .
now , if i wanted to record another technology , let &apos;s say a transportation technology , that on the semi-logarithmic scale would be very inrational in the form of a flat line .
but when something like this happens , it changes the quality of things .
so if the transportation technology continued as fast as the microprocessor technology , we could get into a taxi tomorrow , and in 30 seconds we would be in tokyo .
are you not afraid that you &apos;re going to follow this craftsmanship for your life and never come out of it , and that you &apos;re going to die on a scrambled dreams -- your mouth filled with the bitter ashes of failure ?
but it &apos;s not that fast .
this has never happened before in the history of technology development , this kind of recursive growth , where the scale is exponentially increasing every few years .
the question i &apos;d like to ask you now is , if you look at these exponential curves , you see , they don &apos;t go on forever .
it &apos;s not possible that everything is evolving forever and forever as fast as it is now .
there are two options .
either it &apos;s going to be a classic s-curve like this , until something completely new comes along , or it &apos;s going to happen here .
that &apos;s kind of it .
well , i &apos;m an optimist , so i think something like this is going to happen .
if that &apos;s true , that means we &apos;re in the middle of a transition right now .
we &apos;re here on this line , in a transition from the current world to a new kind of world .
it &apos;s like , you know .
so the question i &apos;d like to ask , and i often ask myself , is how this new world is going to be ?
what is this new state that the world is starting to embrace ?
because the transition seems to be very , very confusing when you &apos;re in the middle .
when i was a kid , the future was somewhere in 2000 , and people would often talk about what would happen in 2000 .
now we have a conference where people talk about the future , and you realize that the future is still in 2000 .
further than that , we don &apos;t go .
so in other words , every year , the future has been shrinking by a year since i &apos;ve been in this world .
i think the reason for this is because we realize that something is going on .
the transition is happening . we can feel it all .
and we know that right now it just doesn &apos;t make sense to try to look 30 or 50 years into the future , because everything will be so different that a simple calculation of what we &apos;re doing now simply doesn &apos;t make sense .
the answer -- the short answer to all of these questions is , yes .
now , i want to talk about what this might be , this transition that we &apos;re in right now .
to do that , i &apos;m going to talk about some other things that really don &apos;t have to do with technology or computers .
because in order to really understand this , i think we need to take a step back and look at the thing on a longer scale of time .
and i want to look at this on the time scale of life on earth .
i think the whole picture makes sense if you divide it into some billions of steps .
so let &apos;s go back , 2.5 billion years . the earth was a big , sterile rock clump with a lot of chemicals floating on it .
now if you look at the way these chemicals were organized , it gives us a pretty good picture of how they did it .
i also think there are theories that start to understand how it all started with rna , but i &apos;m going to tell you a simplified story about it , which is that at that time , there were little oil droplet that had different kinds of recipes for chemicals .
some of these oil droplet contains a special combination of chemicals that allowed them to integrate other chemicals from outside and grow .
all of them were like this , started to divide .
yeah , i &apos;m afraid of all these things .
these little oil droplet were the most primitive cell form in mind .
but these oil droplet were not living in today &apos;s sense , because every single one of them was just a little random recipe of chemicals .
and every time it divided , the chemicals in it have spread to unequal quantities .
so each droplet was a little bit different .
in fact , the droplet grew , which had more optimal composition for growth than others , and integrated more and more chemicals from outside and divided faster .
so these tended to survive longer , and they multiplied in a larger scale .
so this is just a very simple chemical form of life , but more interesting , when these droplet learned a trick about abstraction .
in some way that we don &apos;t fully understand , these droppers have learned the ability to write down information .
they &apos;ve learned to store the recipe of the cell as information in a particular chemical form , which we call dna .
in other words , in this mindless evolutionary way , they found a way that allowed them to write down what they were made of , so that this information could be stored and copied .
we dance in the temple and we become god . &quot;
and i always had that .
and the amazing thing about this is that this way of storing information over the time of 2.5 billion years that it came out was the same .
in fact , the recipe for us is our genes , from exactly the same code and the same type of writing .
and every being uses the exact same letters and the same code .
we &apos;re so far that we can write , just for the purposes of pleasure , ourselves in this code .
and i &apos;ve got 100 micrograms of a white powder that i &apos;m trying to keep away from security workers .
there &apos;s -- what i &apos;ve done is i &apos;ve taken this code -- the code is made up of normal letters that we use to symbolize -- and i &apos;ve written my business card on a piece of dna and i &apos;ve amplified it 10 times .
so if somebody wants a hundred million copies of my business card , i have enough for everybody in this room and even for everybody in the world , and it &apos;s right here .
if i had actually been an egoist , then i would have written it on a virus and released it into the room .
so what &apos;s the next step ?
the down of dna was an interesting step .
and i &apos;m afraid of a lot more things that no one would expect .
and that caused these cells -- that made them happy for another billion years .
but then another very interesting step happened , where things became completely different , and that was that these cells started communicating and exchanging information so that communities emerged from cells .
i don &apos;t know if you knew that , but bacteria can actually exchange their dna .
that &apos;s why , for example , the durability of antibiotics is growing .
some bacteria have figured out how to stay away from penicillin and have written this information together with other bacteria into the dna , and now we have a lot of bacteria that are resistant to penicillin because the bacteria communicate with each other .
this communication now allowed the reasons of communities that were in a certain sense in the same boat ; they were synergetic .
so they either survived together , or they went down together , which meant that if a community was successful , all the individuals of the community were repeated more often and preferred by evolution .
the transition site is now where these communities are so close together that they decided to write the recipe for the whole community into a sign chain on the dna .
and the next interesting phase took about another billion years .
at this point , we have multi-cellular communities , communities of many different cell types that act together as a single organism .
like algae -- and other frightening things .
in fact , we &apos;re also such a multi-celled community .
we have a lot of cells that are no longer on their own .
your skin cells are useless without heart cells , muscle cells , brain cells and so on .
so these communities began to evolve , so that the level on which evolution occurred was no longer the single cell , but the whole cell community , which we call organism .
the next step now happened within these communities .
the cell communities began to abstract information again .
and they developed special structures that did nothing but process information within the organism .
and these are the neural structures .
so the neurons are the information processing system that these cell communities have built .
they started to train specialists within the community , special structures , which were responsible for learning , understanding and holding information .
but when it comes to writing , i &apos;ve been thinking about it recently , and i &apos;ve been wondering , why ?
and this was the brain and the nervous system of these communities .
this gave them an evolutionary advantage .
because at this point , an individual -- learning happened now within the period of time of a single organism &apos;s lifetime , rather than that evolutionary period of time .
so an organism could learn to eat a particular fruit , for example , because it tasted bad and made it sick , the last time he ate it .
now this could happen within the lifetime of a single organism , whereas hundreds of thousands of years before that , because this information had to be learned evolutionarily by the individuals who died because of this fruit , because these information processing structures were not there yet .
so the nervous system has the evolutionary process with these particular information structures , because evolution has now been able to take place within an individual .
it could take place within a time learning framework .
what happened after that is that the individual organisms found a way to communicate with each other .
once as an example , the most sophisticated version of this kind of communication is human language .
it &apos;s a pretty amazing invention when you think about it .
is that reasonable ?
i have a very complicated , messy and confused idea in my head .
i &apos;m sitting here and basically giving grunting sounds of me , hoping to create a similar confused idea in your head , which has a kind of similarity with my original idea .
so we take something very complicated , we turn it into sound , a sequence of sound , and we produce something very complicated in the minds of others .
so this now allows us to work again as a unified organism .
and what we actually did , we , humanity , is we &apos;ve started to abstract .
we go through the same stages that have been through multi-cellular organisms -- the abstraction of our methods , as we hold data , are processing .
for example , the invention of language was a small step in this direction .
telephones , computers , video singers , cd-roms , and so on , are all our specialized mechanisms that we built in our community to be able to handle this information .
and it connects all of us together to something much larger , and also able to evolve faster than we &apos;ve been .
so today , evolution can happen in the period of microseconds .
is it logical that somebody should be expected to be afraid that he &apos;s afraid to do the work that he feels like he &apos;s doing ?
you &apos;ve also seen tys little evolutionary examples where he showed a little bit of evolution in the convolution program right in front of your eyes .
so now we speed up the time scales again .
the first steps in history , which i told you , took a billion years per piece .
the next steps , like the nervous system and the brain , took a few hundred million years .
then the next steps , like language and so on , took less than a million years .
and these next steps , like electronics , seem to take a few decades .
the process feeds itself and becomes , i think , auto-catalytic is the word for it -- when something amplifies its speed of change .
the more it changes , the faster it changes .
and i think that &apos;s what we &apos;re seeing here in this explosion curve .
we see the process that feeds on itself .
and what &apos;s going on with the creative corporations that they make us uncertain about each other &apos;s state of mind -- in a way that other jobs don &apos;t ?
i live professionally from building computers , and i know that i couldn &apos;t use the mechanism that i use to build computers without the advances that i &apos;ve made in computer technology .
my current activity is to design objects with such a high complexity , that it &apos;s impossible for me to design them in the traditional sense .
i don &apos;t know what every single transistor does in the connections machine .
it has billions of these .
what i &apos;m doing instead , and what the designers of thinking machines do , is we &apos;re thinking at a certain level of abstraction , we &apos;re going to give this machine , and the machine is going to make it something that &apos;s way beyond our ability , better and faster than we could ever do it ourselves .
and it does it partly with methods that we don &apos;t even understand so far .
one way that &apos;s particularly interesting , and which i &apos;ve used a lot recently , is evolution itself .
and we &apos;re installing an evolutionary process in the machine that &apos;s going on in the microsecond area .
to give you an example , in the most extreme cases , we can create a program that comes from random instructions .
we say , &quot; computers , please generate a hundred million randomly selected sequences of instructions .
my father , for example , was a chemist , and i can &apos;t remember a situation in his 40 years as a chemist , where he was asked if he was afraid to be a chemist .
now , please perform all of these randomly chosen instructions , perform all the programs , and eventually choose the ones that are closest to my premises . &quot;
so in other words , i define what i want first .
let &apos;s say , i want to sort numbers , that would be a simple example that i &apos;ve used for that .
so find programs that can sort the most likely numbers .
of course , the chance , in random instructions , is very small that by accident , you &apos;re going to sort numbers , so i don &apos;t think any of the instructions will actually do that .
but one of them may be lucky enough to put two numbers in the right order .
now i say , &quot; computer , take the 10 percent of the sequences that have come closest to my premise .
store them off , delete the rest .
now , reproduces all the rest of the numbers that have best sorted the numbers .
and this is with a method of recombination , analog for reproduction . &quot;
with your chemical blockage , john -- how do you do that ?
take two programs and they produce children through the exchange of their subroutines , and the children inherit the features of the subroutines from the two programs .
so now i &apos;ve got a new generation of programs that have come from combinations of programs that have come a little closer than others .
say , &quot; please repeat this process . &quot;
evaluating it again .
maybe lead some mutations .
and try this again with another generation .
all of these generations take just a few milliseconds .
and so i can have an evolution going through the computer over millions of years in a few minutes , or in more complicated cases , a few hours .
finally , i get programs that can perfectly sort numbers .
in fact , these programs are so much more efficient than any program i could have ever written by hand .
it just didn &apos;t happen , you know ?
so when i look at these programs , i can &apos;t tell you how they work .
i tried to understand them .
these are convoluted and strange programs .
but they do the job .
i know , and i &apos;m sure they &apos;re doing the job because they come from a series of hundreds of thousands of programs that have done the job .
because their life depended on whether they did the job right .
i sat in a 747 together with marvin minsky , and he pulled out a map and said , &quot; oh look . look at this .
it says , &apos; this plane is made up of hundreds of thousands of little bits that work together to make your flight safer . &apos; doesn &apos;t that make you more confident ? &quot;
we know that an development process is not optimal when it gets too complicated .
so we &apos;re starting to rely on computers for a process that is very different from classical engineering .
and because you &apos;re obsessed , you &apos;re taken by the mind . how can you be harmed ?
but in order to be fair -- the group of chemists have not received the reputation of alcohol addicts of man-depressed people over the centuries .
it allows us to do things with much higher complexity than the normal methods would allow us to produce .
and yet , we don &apos;t really understand the possibilities of this yet .
so , in a sense , technology is overwhelming us .
we &apos;re using these programs now to make the computers much faster , so that we &apos;re able to do these processes even faster .
so there &apos;s a recovery .
it gets faster and faster , and i think that &apos;s why it seems so confusing .
because all these new technologies today are feeding on themselves .
we &apos;re going to pick up .
we &apos;ve come to a point where the analog is at the time , as a single-cell organism , has evolved into multi-cell organisms .
so we &apos;re the amoeba , and we can &apos;t quite figure out what the hell we &apos;re actually creating here .
but we writers seem to have this kind of call , but not just the writers , but the creatives of all genres , seem to have this call to be mentally unstable .
we &apos;re in the middle of this transition point .
but i really believe that after us , something else comes .
i find it very tireless to tell us that we are the end product of evolution .
and i think all of us here are part of the creation of whatever comes next .
well , the lunch is before , and i think i &apos;m going to stop here now before i get chosen .
my story starts right here in rajasthan , about two years ago .
i was under the star sky in the desert with sufi singer mukhtiar ali .
we talked about nothing changing since the time of the ancient indian epos , &quot; mahabharata . &quot;
if we wanted to travel indians at the time , we would jump into a car and swirl across the sky .
now we &apos;re doing this with airplanes .
all you have to do is look at the bitter death numbers of really great minds just from the 20th century , which young and often died by your own hand .
at the time , when the great indian warrior prince had thirst arjuna , he took an arjuna bow , shooted into the ground and water came out .
now we &apos;re doing this with drills and machines .
we came to the conclusion that magic and magic were replaced by machines .
that made me really sad .
i got a little scared of technology .
it scared me that i could lose the ability to enjoy the sunset without a camera and no tweet to my friends .
i found that technology should make magic possible and not kill .
when i was a little girl , my grandfather gave me his little silver watch .
this piece of 50 years old technology became the most magical thing for me .
it became a gold access to a world full of pirates and unfortunate ships and images in my mind .
and even those who didn &apos;t actually do suicide seemed to have been really neglected by their talents .
it seemed to me that our sending clocks and cameras were dreaming about it .
they kept us from being inspired .
and so i went into the technology world to see how i could use magic instead of killing .
when i was 16 , i started illustrating books .
when i saw the ipad , i saw it as a device to tell storytelling readers around the world .
it can know how we hold it .
it can know where we are .
it brings images and text together , and animation , sound and touch .
storytelling needs more and more senses .
but what do we do with this ?
norman mailer said just before he died in his last interview : each of my books killed me a little bit further .
i &apos;m just going to khoya , an interactive ipad app .
it says , &quot; put your fingers on every light . &quot;
and so -- this one says , &quot; this box belongs ... &quot; i write my name .
and i become a character in the book .
every once in a while , a letter falls down -- and the ipad knows where i live -- it &apos;s addressed to me .
the child in me is really excited about this kind of opportunity .
i &apos;ve talked a lot about magic .
i mean , not magicians and dragons , but the magic of childhood , the ideas we all had as children .
fireflies in a glass , i always found very exciting .
so here you have to tip the ipad and release the fireflies out .
an extraordinary statement that you can make about your life &apos;s work .
and they were lighting the way through the rest of the book .
another idea that fascinated me as a child is that a whole galaxy can be put in a single marble .
and so every book here and every world becomes a little murmur that i &apos;m going to pull here to the magic device in the device .
and this opens up a map .
fantasy books have always had maps , but these cards were static .
this map grows and glows and serves for orientation in the rest of the book .
it also shows itself in other places of the book .
i &apos;m going in here .
it &apos;s also important for me to create something that is indian , but it &apos;s also very timely .
these are the apsaras .
but we don &apos;t even admit that when we hear somebody say that , because we &apos;ve known this kind of statement for so long . somehow we &apos;ve been so internalized and collective accepted that creativity and suffering are somehow together , and that art -- always leads to the soul .
we &apos;ve all heard about fees and nymphs , but how many people outside india know their indian colleagues , the apsaras ?
the poor apsaras were trapped in indras for thousands of years , in an old courageous book .
and we bring them back in a contemporary history for children .
a story that deals with new issues , like the environmental crisis .
in the theme of environmental crisis , a big problem of the last 10 years is that kids are sitting in their rooms , on their computers , without going out .
but now , with mobile technology , we can take our children into the natural world with their technology .
in an interaction of the book , you &apos;re sent out to a search , and you have to go out and collect pictures with the ipad &apos;s camera .
as a child , i had collections of sticks , stones , tiles and shells .
somehow , children don &apos;t do that anymore .
this childhood ritual is brought back . you have to go out to take a picture of a flower in a chapter and tag it .
the question i want to ask everyone here today is : is this idea completely fine for you ?
in another chapter , you have to photograph and tag a piece of tree mri .
so you actually create a digital collection of photographs that you can then put online .
a kid in london shows the picture of a fox and says , &quot; oh , i &apos;ve seen a fox today . &quot;
a child in india says , &quot; i &apos;ve seen a monkey today . &quot;
this creates a kind of social network around a digital collection of photographs that you &apos;ve actually taken .
there are a number of ways that magic can connect the world and technology together .
in the next book , we &apos;re going to plan an interaction where you &apos;re going to use the video of the ipad , and through augmented reality , we &apos;re going to see an animation of 11 that appear on a plant in front of the house .
at one point , the screen is filled with leaves .
you have to make the sound of the wind , blow it away and read the rest of the book .
we &apos;re all moving towards a world where the natural forces of technology can get closer and get closer to magic and technology .
do you feel comfortable with it ? because with only one centimeter away , i don &apos;t feel comfortable with that notion .
we use the energy of the sun .
we bring our children and we get closer to the natural world and to the magic , fun and love of our childhood through the simple medium of history .
thank you .
this is really an extraordinary honor for me .
i spend most of my time studying people , prisons or death cells .
i spend most of my time with the most social weakest in the social settlements and in places where there is a lot of hopelessness .
to be here at ted , to see and hear how stimulating that is , has given me a lot of power .
in the short time here , i realized that ted has an identity .
you can say things that have influence around the world .
and sometimes , when something comes about ted , it gets a meaning and a force that otherwise wouldn &apos;t have .
i find them disgusting .
i say that because i believe identity is very important .
we &apos;ve seen some fantastic presentations .
i think we &apos;ve learned that the words of a teacher matter , but that the words of a dedicated teacher are particularly meaningful .
as a doctor , you can do good things . but as a doctor , you can do more .
and so i want to talk about the power of identity .
i didn &apos;t learn that in my work as a lawyer .
i learned this from my grandmother .
i grew up in a family , a traditional african-american household , which was dominated by a matriarch , and this matriarch was my grandmother .
she was a keyboard , strong woman , she had an effect .
she had the last word in every family &apos;s argument .
look at these amazing demonstrations : voodoo akolyths in a trunk state that includes glowing coal without burn , an amazing illustration of the ability of the mind to affect the body so that it holds out when it &apos;s put into a state of extreme arousal .
and i find it dangerous . and i don &apos;t want to watch it take over to the next century .
she was also the origin of many arguments in our family .
she was the daughter of a slave family .
their parents were born as slaves in virginia in the 1840s .
she was born around 1880 , and the experience of slavery was very much shaped by her worldview .
my grandmother was strong , but she was also loving .
when i met her as a young boy , she came up to me and hugged me .
she pushed me so hard that i could barely breathe , and then she let me go .
one or two hours later , when i met her , she came up to me and she said , &quot; bryan , do you feel my hug ? &quot;
and when i said no , she hugged me again . if i said yes , she left me alone .
she was something that made you want to be close to her .
i think it &apos;s better if we encourage our great creative encouragement to live .
the only problem with this was that she had 10 children .
my mother was the youngest of her 10 children .
sometimes , if i wanted to spend time with her , it was hard to get her attention .
my cousins were running around everywhere .
i remember , i must have been eight or nine , that i woke up one morning and i went to the living room . all my cousins were walking around .
my grandmother was sitting at the end of the room and staring at me .
first of all , i thought that was a game .
i looked at her and smiled , but she looked very serious .
that was 15 or 20 minutes , and then she stood up and came over to me , and she took me by the hand , and she said , &quot; come on , bryan . you and i , we need to talk . &quot;
i remember it was yesterday .
and i definitely know that for me -- in my situation -- it would be very dangerous to begin to shrink this dark path of suspection , in a sense -- especially in the circumstance that i &apos;m in right now in my career .
i &apos;ll never forget it .
she took me out and said , &quot; bryan , i &apos;m going to tell you something , but you &apos;ve got to promise you don &apos;t say it . &quot;
i said , &quot; excuse me , grandmother . &quot;
she said , &quot; honoring ? &quot; i said , &quot; yes . &quot;
she sat me down and looked at me . she said , &quot; i want you to know that i watched you . &quot;
she said , &quot; i think you &apos;re special . &quot;
she said , &quot; i think you can do anything you want to do . &quot;
i &apos;ll never forget that .
then she said , &quot; you just have to promise me three things , bryan . &quot;
i said , &quot; ok , grandmother . &quot;
that means -- look , i &apos;m pretty young . i &apos;m only about 40 years old .
she said , &quot; first of all , i promise you will always love your mom . &quot;
she said , &quot; your mom is my baby , and you &apos;ve got to promise you &apos;re always going to take care of her . &quot;
i adored my mother , so i said , &quot; yes , oma , i &apos;m going to do that . &quot;
and then she said , &quot; next , i &apos;m going to promise you will always do the right thing , &quot; even though it &apos;s hard to do the right thing . &quot;
i thought , &quot; yes , oma . i promise . &quot;
finally , she said , &quot; the last thing you have to promise me is , &quot; you &apos;re never going to drink alcohol . &quot;
well , i was nine years old , and so i said , &quot; yes , grandmother . i promise . &quot;
i grew up in the country , in the old , rural south , and i have a brother who &apos;s a year older and a younger sister .
when i was about 14 or 15 , my brother came home one day and brought this sixpack beer with me , my sister and i went to the forest with us .
we were just silly around the same way as we were .
i may have another 40 years of work in me .
then he took a swallow of beer and offered one to my sister , and she accepted , and then she offered one to me .
i said , &quot; no , no , no . yeah , ok . just do it . i don &apos;t want a beer . &quot;
my brother said , &quot; well , let &apos;s do that . now we do that , you do everything else we do .
i had something , your sister had something . go , drink a beer . &quot;
i said , &quot; i don &apos;t want to . just do it . do it . &quot;
my brother stared at me .
he said , &quot; what &apos;s going on with you ? well , drink something . &quot;
and then he looked me in the face , and he said , &quot; oh no , you don &apos;t still get crazy about the conversation with grandma ? &quot;
i said , &quot; what are you talking about ? &quot;
he said , &quot; oma tells all the grandchildren that they &apos;re special . &quot;
and it &apos;s extremely likely that everything i &apos;m going to write from now on is considered to be the work that came after the lost success of my last book , right ?
i was devastated .
i &apos;m going to tell you something .
i should probably not do that .
this may be transmitted publicly .
i &apos;m 52 years old , and i say that i &apos;ve never drunk a drop of alcohol .
i &apos;m not saying that because i think it &apos;s virtuous . i &apos;m saying that because identity means power .
if we create the right kind of identity , we can tell the people around us things that they don &apos;t believe first .
we can get them to do things they thought they couldn &apos;t .
of course , my grandmother would say to all her grandchildren that they are special .
my grandfather was in jail during the prohibition .
i say it straight , because we &apos;re all kind of friends here now -- it &apos;s very likely that my greatest success is behind me .
my uncles died of alcohol induced diseases .
and she believed that this was the topics that we had to care about .
i tried to say something about our justice system .
this country is different from 40 years ago .
in 1972 , 300,000 people were in prison and in prison .
today , it &apos;s 2.3 million .
the united states today has the highest incarceration rate in the world .
seven million people are left on currency or with conditional punishment .
in my opinion , mass incarceration has fundamentally changed our world .
in socially weak and black parts of the population , there is despair and hopelessness because of these changes .
oh , jesus , what a thought !
one out of three male black between 18 and 30 is in prison , in prison , released on currency or with conditional punishment .
in urban communities all over the country -- from los angeles to philadelphia , baltimore to washington -- 50 to 60 percent of all black young men are either left in prison , either in prison , on currency , or with conditional punishment .
but our system is not only shaped by questions that have to do with racism , it &apos;s also created by poverty .
we have a justice system in this country that treats them much better when they &apos;re rich and guilty than poor and innocent .
wealth , not debt , affects the outcome .
nevertheless , we seem to be very pleased with this .
a politics of fear and anger has convinced us that these problems are not our problems .
we &apos;ve lost touch .
i think that &apos;s interesting .
there are some very interesting developments .
these are the kinds of thoughts that can get someone to start at nine o &apos;clock in the morning , drink gin . and i don &apos;t want to .
my home state of alabama is constantly pulling the right to vote when they &apos;re sentencing them .
here and today in alabama , 34 percent of the male black population has permanently lost their vote .
we predict that in 10 years , the rate of recognition of civil rights is going to be as high as before the legislation of the election .
the silence is anesthetizing .
i represent children .
many of my clients are very young .
the united states of america is the only country in the world that convicts three-year-old children to death in prison .
in this country , there are life penalty for children without conditional punishment .
we already have a lot of procedures going on .
the only country in the world .
i &apos;d rather continue to do this work that i love .
i represent people in death cells .
the death penalty question is an interesting question .
we believe that because we &apos;ve been taught so that the real question is : did a human deserve to die for a crime he did ?
this is a very sensitive question .
but you can also think about it differently , depending on how we see our identity .
the other view is not : did anyone deserve death for a crime , but did we deserve to kill ?
i think that &apos;s fascinating .
the death penalty in america is defined by error .
on nine people we &apos;ve executed , one that we &apos;ve found for innocent is deposited and released from death row .
an amazing error rate . one in nine innocent .
but what &apos;s interesting is the unique inflection of the song , the rhythm of dance in every culture .
now , of all the people i &apos;ve met , the ement of the sierra nevada de santa marta in northern colombia was the most extraordinary .
so the question is : how ?
i think that &apos;s fascinating .
we would never let anyone fly with an airplane if for nine planes to pick up , one would crash .
but somehow we &apos;re getting rid of this problem .
it &apos;s not our problem .
it &apos;s not our burden .
it &apos;s not our fight .
i &apos;m talking a lot about these questions .
i &apos;m talking about race and the question of whether we &apos;re right to kill .
and it &apos;s exciting because i teach my students african-american history . i talk about slavery .
i &apos;m talking about terrorism , time versus the end of reconstruction , to the beginning of world war ii .
after some time of reflection , it seems to me that to continue writing , i have to design a kind of protective psychological construct .
we don &apos;t really know very much about it .
but for african-americans in this country , it was a time of terror .
in many areas , people were afraid of lynchmobs .
or in front of bombs .
it was the fear of terror that shaped their lives .
these older people are now coming up to me and saying , &quot; mr , stevenson , you &apos;re talking , you &apos;re giving talks . you &apos;re telling people to stop telling us that for the first time in our nation &apos;s history , we have to do with terrorism : after 9 / 11 . &quot;
they say , &quot; no -- tell people that we grew up with this . &quot;
and after terrorism , of course , the race race race and decades of racial motivated underrating and apartheid .
and yet , in our country , there is a dynamic -- we don &apos;t like to talk about our problems .
we don &apos;t like to talk about our story .
somehow , from now on , i have to find a way to preserve a safe distance between myself and my very natural climb about what the reaction is going to be on the written .
and that &apos;s why we don &apos;t really understand the meaning of our actions in the historical context .
we &apos;re always bumping together .
we always create new tensions and conflicts .
we &apos;re hard to talk about race , and i think that &apos;s because we &apos;re not willing to approach the process of truth and reconciliation .
in south africa , people have understood that the racial race is not over without the willingness to truth and reconciliation .
even after the genocide in rwanda , there was this willingness , but not in this country .
i &apos;ve given some talks in germany about death penalty .
it was fascinating , because one of the scientists stood up after my talk and said , &quot; you know , it &apos;s deeply disturbing to hear you speak like this . &quot;
he said , &quot; in germany , there is no death penalty .
and of course , it can never be there in germany . &quot;
while i &apos;ve been looking for models last year to do this , i &apos;ve also been looking for the past , and i &apos;ve been trying to find other societies to see if they might have better or more sensible ideas about it than we can help creativity to deal with the emotional risks associated with creativity .
it became silent . then a woman said , &quot; with our story , it &apos;s impossible that we ever speak for the systematic killing of people again .
it would be unaware of us , consciously and targeted to make people . &quot;
i thought about it .
how it would feel to live in a world where german state made people , especially if there were disproportionately many jews .
it would be intolerable .
it would be remorse .
and yet , here in this country , in the states of the old south , we &apos;re putting people -- here &apos;s the risk of being convicted to death , 11 times higher , if the victim is white than if it &apos;s black . 22 times higher , if the dedicated black is and the victim knows -- in the same states where the earth is resting the body of yellow people .
and yet , there &apos;s this mental copying .
i think our identity is threatened .
if we don &apos;t deal with it , with these difficult issues , then the positive and wonderful things are also affected .
this quest led me to ancient greece and the old rome .
we love innovation .
we love technology and creativity .
we love entertainment .
but finally , these realities are being overwhelmed by suffering , abuse , decomposition , boundary .
it seems to me that it &apos;s important to unite both .
because we ultimately talk about the need for more hope , more engagement , more commitment to be able to pass in a complex world .
to me , it means time to spend , think and talk about the poor , the disadvantaged , the ones that will never be at ted .
but think in a way that is integrated into our own lives .
we all have to believe at the end of the day things we can &apos;t see .
we do . as rational as we are , as much as we estimate intellect .
please follow me , because the circle will close again .
innovation , creativity , and development is not just coming out of our heads .
they come from ideas that are driven by persuasion in our hearts .
it &apos;s this head-to-heart connection that i believe is driving us to not only be open to all the bright and exciting things , but also to the dark and problematic .
vaclav havel , the great czech politician , once said .
&quot; when we fought in eastern europe against oppression , we wanted everything , but what we needed the most was hope to be a mental orientation , the willingness to be sometimes in hopeless places and witness . &quot;
this mental orientation is the core of what i believe the ted communities need to engage in as well .
there &apos;s no boundary for technology and design that allows us to be fully human , as long as we don &apos;t have eyes and ears for poverty , boundary and injustice .
i want to warn you . this kind of identity requires a lot more of us than if we didn &apos;t care about it .
it will deeply touch you .
as a young lawyer , i had the great privilege of meeting pink parks .
but in ancient greece and rome , people didn &apos;t believe that creativity comes from people , ok ?
and ms. parks kept coming back to montgomery , where she tracked two of her oldest friends , these older women , johnnie carr , who had organized the montgomery bus boycott -- an incredible african-american -- and virginia durr , a white man , clifford durr , dr. king .
so these women would come together and just talk .
occasionally , ms. carr called me and said , &quot; bryan , ms. parks comes to the city . we want to talk .
do you want to come and listen ? &quot;
and i said , &quot; yes , very much . &quot;
she said , &quot; and what are you going to do if you &apos;re here ? &quot;
i said , &quot; i &apos;m going to listen . &quot;
and i went over and just listened .
it was always so inspiring , so devastating .
i sat there one day , and i listened to these women , and after a few hours , ms. parks turned to me and said , &quot; well , bryan , tell me what the same thing is . &quot;
they believed that creativity was a kind of divine spirit that came from a distant , unknown source to people -- for unexplained , unknown reasons .
what are you trying to do ? &quot;
i started with my usual talk .
and i said , &quot; we &apos;re trying to do it against injustice .
wr wants to help people who have been innocently convicted .
we want to fight bias and discrimination in the criminal justice system .
we want to eliminate lifelong sentences with no conditional punishment for children .
we want to do something about death penalty .
we want to reduce the number of inmates .
we want to eliminate mass incarceration . &quot;
i gave my usual talk , and after that , she looked at me and she said , &quot; mhmm . mhmm . &quot;
the greeks called these divine diener-spirit spirits of creativity .
she said , &quot; it &apos;s going to make you very , very tired . &quot;
then ms. carr leaned in front of me , put a finger on my face and said , &quot; and therefore you have to be very , very brave . &quot;
and that &apos;s why i think the ted community should be brainers .
we need to find ways to address these challenges : these problems , this suffering .
because ultimately , our humanity depends on our humanity .
in my work , i learned very simple things .
i learned a couple of very simple things .
that we &apos;re all more than the worst we &apos;ve ever done .
i think that &apos;s true for every person on the planet .
when someone lies , it &apos;s not just a liar .
from socrates , he &apos;s known that he believed that he had a demonstration that told him wisdom from a farther distance .
if somebody takes something they don &apos;t hear , they &apos;re not just a thief .
even if you kill somebody , it &apos;s not just a murderer .
and because it is , there is a fundamental human dignity that needs to respect the law .
i also believe that in many parts of this country , and certainly in many parts of the world , the opposite of poverty is not wealth .
i don &apos;t think so .
i think in too many places , the opposite of poverty is justice .
and finally , i believe that even though it &apos;s so dramatic , so beautiful and so inspiring , we &apos;re not being measured at the end of our technology , not in the things that we develop , not in our intellect and our minds .
finally , a society is not measured by how they treat their rich and powerful and privileged , but how they deal with the poor , the convicted , the incarcerated .
because in this context , we &apos;re beginning to understand the truly amazing things that make us .
sometimes i lose equilibrium . one story at the end .
the offspring of the ancient tyrannian civilization populated the caribbean coastal plain of colombia , and as a result of conquest , this people moved into an isolated volcanic mass that rises above the caribbean coastal plain .
the romans had the same idea , they called this kind of disembodied creative mind .
sometimes i push too much .
i get tired , like all of us .
sometimes these ideas are going to be ahead of our thinking in a very important way .
i represent these kids who were convicted of very hard punishment .
i go to the study prison and visit a client who may be 13 or 14 years old , and should be on trial as an adult .
then i wonder : how could this happen ?
how can a judge turn someone into something they &apos;re not ?
the judge looks at him as an adult , but i see a child .
one night , i stayed up for too long , and i thought , my god , if a judge can turn us into something else , it must have magic forces .
right , bryan , the judge has magic forces .
that &apos;s great . the romans didn &apos;t really think that a genius was a particularly smart individual .
you should also want them .
and because it was late , and i couldn &apos;t really think , i started working on a contract .
i had a 14-year-old , poor black boy as a client .
and i started this contract , and the headline said , &quot; assignment to treat my poor , 14-year-old black clients like a privileged , white , 75-year-old top managers . &quot;
in my assignment , i explained that the misconduct of the state council and the police and the trafficking errors were considerable .
there was a crazy line about how nothing is going on in this country , that there &apos;s only misbehavior .
the next morning , i woke up and i didn &apos;t know if i &apos;d dreamed of this crazy post or actually written it .
and to my dismay , i had not only written him , but i had sent him to the court .
a few months went on , and i had just forgotten everything .
but finally , i decided , my god , i have to go to the court and do this crazy case .
they believed that a genius was this kind of magical divinity that was believed to live literally in the walls of an artist -- sort of like dobby , the house 11 -- that came out and the artist at work would sort of be invisible and design the outcome of the work .
i got in the car , and i was really overwhelmed -- overwhelmed .
so i went to the court .
and i thought , this is going to be so hard , so painful .
finally , i got out of my car , and i went up the staircase to the court .
when i lifted up the staircase to the court , there was an old , black man , the janitor in the court .
when he saw me , he came over to me and he said , &quot; who are you ? &quot;
i said , &quot; i &apos;m a lawyer . &quot; he said , &quot; you &apos;re a lawyer ? &quot; i said , &quot; yes . &quot;
he came up to me and hugged me .
then he whispered into my ear .
he said , &quot; i &apos;m so proud of you . &quot;
this is brilliant -- there it is , there is the distance i talked about -- the psychological construct that protects you from the consequences of your work .
and i have to say , it gave me power .
it touched something deeply in me , identity , the ability to contribute to a community , to a perspective of hope .
well , i walked into the courthouse .
as soon as the judge saw me .
he said , &quot; mr. stevenson , did you hire this crazy contract ? &quot;
i said , &quot; yes . &quot; and then we started discussing .
more and more people came in just because they were angry .
i had written these crazy things .
police officers came in and deputy prosecutors and office workers .
in the palm of the manual , the courtship was full of people who were angry that we talked about skin color , about poverty , about inequality .
and everybody knew it worked like this , right ?
from my point of view , i saw the janitor go up and down .
he kept looking through the window , and he could hear the whole tohuwabohu .
he went up and down .
finally , this older black man came into the courthouse with a very concerned facial ridge , and he sat right behind me , almost to the defense bank .
ten minutes later , the judge announced a break .
during the break , a police officer came in , and it disturbed that the janitor was in the court room .
this deputy ran over to the older black .
he said , &quot; jimmy , what are you doing in the courthouse ? &quot;
the older black man stood up . he looked at the deputy , then he looked at me , and he said , &quot; i &apos;ve come here to tell this young man , don &apos;t lose the goal out of the eyes . don &apos;t give up . &quot;
i &apos;ve come to ted because i think many of you have understood that the moral pendulum of the universe is going to be far , but that it &apos;s going to be justice .
the artist of the age was protected from certain things , like , too much narcissism , right ?
that we , as humans , are not completely designed until we care about human rights and basic values .
that our own survival is connected to each and every one of us .
that we need to connect our visions of technology and design , of entertainment and creativity with humanity , compassion and justice .
and most of all , i just want to say that those of you who also see that , just say , don &apos;t lose the goal out of your eyes . don &apos;t give up .
you &apos;ve seen in this audience , this community , an obvious desire , and you &apos;ve heard to help them and do something .
what else can we do ?
bryan stevenson : well , there are opportunities everywhere
if you live in california , there &apos;s a census in this spring , where it &apos;s about actually taking a effort to do something of the money that otherwise flows into the politics of punishment .
here , in california , for example , in the next five years , you &apos;re going to spend a billion dollars on death penalty . a billion dollars .
and yet , 46 percent of all fatalities don &apos;t end up with a arrest .
if your work was brilliant , you didn &apos;t have to take a look at it all for you , everyone knew that you had this disembodied genius that helped you .
56 percent of rape cases don &apos;t come to court .
here &apos;s the opportunity to do something .
this reference will propose to invest money in more security forces and security .
i think there are opportunities everywhere .
in the last three decades , the crime rate in america has declined immensely .
this fact is often put into a context with the heightened incarceration numbers .
what would you tell someone who believes that ?
well , in fact , the number of violent crimes has not changed very much .
most of the mass incarceration in this country was not really in the class of violent crime .
it was the misguided crossroads against drugs .
when your work flew -- not entirely your fault , right ?
that &apos;s where the dramatic high numbers come from the prisoners .
we &apos;ve been tearing down by the rhetoric of punishment .
now we have three violations laws that keep people behind bars , for a bicycle theft , for the theft , for the theft , for a little bit of good , instead of forcing them to give back the victims .
i think we need to do more to help people who have become victims of a crime , not less .
and i think that our current philosophy of punishment doesn &apos;t help anybody .
i think that &apos;s what we need to change .
bryan , they really made a string here to vibrate .
they &apos;re an inspiring personality .
thank you for being at ted . thank you .
bin laden &apos;s death takes an increased risk of drive .
everybody knew your genius was a little laugh .
famine in somalia . speaker three : police pepper spray .
four : malignant cartels . five : dangerous cruise ships .
six : social decline . seven : 65 dead .
tsunamic warning . speaker 9 : cyber-attacks
different speakers : drug war . weapons of mass destruction . tornado .
recession . gridlock . doomsday . egypt . syria .
crisis . death . disaster .
oh my god .
so these are just a few of the clips that i &apos;ve collected over the last six months -- it could have been the last six days , or the last six years .
the fact is that the media preferences to show us negative issues , because our minds are paying attention to these very topics .
that &apos;s how people in the west really thought about creativity for a long time .
and there &apos;s also a very good reason for this .
every second of the day , our senses are catching much more information than our brain can ever process .
and because we care about nothing more than our survival , the first stop for all the information is part of our temporal lobe , the amygdala .
so the amygdala is our early warning system , our driving detector .
it &apos;s sorting and scaling all the information in the search for any evidence of danger in our environment .
so when we see the news , we prefer to look for negative news .
and the old saying , &quot; when it bleeds , the demand goes up , &quot; is very true .
now , with all of our digital devices , which , seven days a week , to make all these negative news 24 hours a day , it &apos;s not a miracle that we &apos;re pessimistic .
it &apos;s not a miracle that everybody thinks the world is getting worse and worse .
but maybe that &apos;s not the case .
in a bloodblown continent , these people were the only ones that were never conquered by the spaniards .
and then the renaissance came and everything changed . we had this big idea . and this big idea was : let &apos;s put the human individual in the center of the universe -- all the gods and mysteries . and there &apos;s no room for mystical creatures who accept commands from divinity .
maybe that &apos;s the reality .
maybe the enormous progress that we &apos;ve made in the last century is accelerating through a series of forces , so strong that we will be able to create a world of abundance in the next three decades .
now , i &apos;m not saying that we don &apos;t have big problems -- climate crisis , species deaths , water and energy problems -- we already have them .
and as humans , we &apos;re much better at looking at problems in a very long way , but ultimately they &apos;re overcoming .
let &apos;s look at what we &apos;ve achieved in the last century so that we can anticipate development .
in the last 100 years , the average life expectancy has more than doubled , the average income in the world has tripled .
child mortality has dropped by a tenth .
and the other thing is that the food , electricity transportation and communications costs have decreased a lot of times .
steve pinker showed us that we currently live in a very peaceful time of human history .
and according to charles kenny , the literacy rate has gone from 25 percent to 80 percent in the last 130 years .
it &apos;s the beginning of rational humanism , and people started to believe that creativity came completely from their own individual .
we live in a really extraordinary time .
and a lot of people forget this .
and we &apos;re constantly increasing our expectations .
in fact , we &apos;ve redefined poverty .
remember that a lot of americans living under the poverty line have access to electricity , water , toilets , refrigerators , tv , mobile phones , air conditioning and cars .
the richest capitalists in the last century , the imperators on earth , could never have dreamed of such luxury goods .
the basis for a lot of it is technology , and they grow expotentially .
my good friend ray kurzweil has shown us that every tool that becomes the information technology , on the curve of moore &apos;s law , is doubling the price performance quotient every 12 to 24 months .
that &apos;s why the mobile phone in your pocket costs about a million times less , and it &apos;s thousands of times faster than a supercomputer in the &apos; 70s .
now look at this curve .
for the first time in history , you hear people call this artist a genius -- instead of having a genius .
this is moore &apos;s law over the last hundred years .
notice two things about this curve .
first of all , how smooth it goes -- in good times or in bad times , war or peace , recession , depression and high conjuncture .
this is the result of faster computers building faster computers .
it doesn &apos;t slow down for any of our big problems .
and also , despite her logarithmic course on the left , she goes up .
so growth rate itself is accelerating .
and on this curve , on the back of moore &apos;s law , we find a series of extraordinary technologies that are available to all of us .
cloud-computing , what my friends at autodesk call infinite-computing , sensors and networks , robots , 3d printers that allow personal production on our planet , synthetic biology , fuels , vaccines and food , digital medicine , nano-materials and artificial intelligence .
how many of you have seen the victory of ibm &apos;s supercomputer watson at risk ?
i have to tell you , i think that was a big mistake .
that was a great deal .
i once went through the newspapers and looked for the best headlines i could find .
i love this one : &quot; watson constrains human enemies . &quot;
&quot; risk &quot; is not a simple game .
it &apos;s about understanding the nuances of language .
imagine that this artificial intelligence is available to every cell phone owner .
four years ago , ray kurzweil and i started a new university here at ted called singularity university .
we teach our students all these technologies , with special focus on how they can be used to solve the big challenges of humanity .
and every year , we ask the students to create companies , products and services that can positively affect the lives of billions of people in a decade .
think about the fact that a group of students today can affect the lives of billions of people .
you know ? i think it &apos;s a mere person to allow him to think he or she &apos;s like the vessel , like the basin and the essence and the source of all divine , creative , unknown , infinite mystery is a little too much responsibility to burst you to a fragile , human psyche .
30 years ago , this would have sound ridiculous .
today , we can point to dozens of companies that have done this .
when i think about creating abundance , i don &apos;t mean a life of luxury for everyone on this planet ; it &apos;s about creating a life of opportunities .
it &apos;s about creating abundance from scarce goods .
because scarcity is contextual , and technology is a resources that are liberating power .
here &apos;s an example .
this is the story of napoleon i. in the middle of the 18th century .
he &apos;s the guy on the left .
he invited the king of siam to dinner .
napoleon &apos;s soldiers got silver bribe , napoleon himself got gold bribe .
it &apos;s like asking someone to swallow the sun .
but the king of siam got aluminum bribe .
aluminum at that time was the most valuable metal on the planet , more valuable than gold and plate .
this is why the dome of the washington monument was made out of aluminum .
even though aluminum takes 8.3 percent of the earth &apos;s mass , it doesn &apos;t seem like pure metal .
it &apos;s connected by oxygen and silicon .
but then the technology of electrolysis was developed and made aluminum so cheap that we use it with our throwaway mentality .
then let &apos;s project this analogy into the future .
we &apos;re thinking today about energy scarcity .
ladies and gentlemen , we live on a planet that &apos;s filled with 5,000-times more energy than we use every year .
16 terawatts of energy collide to the surface of the earth every 88 minutes .
this disfigures and distorts whole egos , and it creates all these unreachable expectations of success .
it &apos;s not scarcity , the problem is accessibility .
and there &apos;s good news .
this year , they were able to reduce the cost of solar power in india to 50 percent of the same electricity -- 8.8 rupees compared to 17 rupees .
the cost of solar energy dropped by 50 percent last year .
this was published last month with a study showing that by the end of this decade , in the sun areas of the united states , solar energy will cost six cents a kwh , compared to 15 cents on national average .
and if we have a surplus of energy , we will also have water in abundance .
let &apos;s talk about water wars .
do you remember carl sagan turned the voyager spacecraft back to earth in 1990 , when it passed saturn ?
he took a famous photograph . what was it like ?
&quot; a pale blue dot . &quot;
i think this pressure has devastated our artists for the last 500 years .
because we live on a planet of water .
we live on a planet that &apos;s 70 percent covered in water .
yes , it &apos;s 97.5 percent saltwater , two percent of it &apos;s gone , and we &apos;re fighting by 0.5 percent of the water on the planet , but there &apos;s also hope .
and there are new technologies , not in 10 or 20 years , but now .
it &apos;s new nanotechnology on the way , nano-materials .
and from a conversation this morning with dean kaman , one of the innovators of the do it yourself , i want to share with you something -- he gave me permission -- his technology called &quot; slingshot , &quot; and many of you may have heard about . it &apos;s the size of a refrigerator at a student &apos;s home .
it can produce a thousand gallons of clean drinking water a day from different sources -- whether it &apos;s saltwater , polluted water , latrine -- and all of that for less than two cents a gallon .
the head of coca-cola has just agreed to start a big test project with a hundred units in the developing world .
and if everything goes well , and i &apos;m very confident , then coca-cola will apply this technology globally in 206 countries around the planet .
this is technology support innovation that we have today .
and if that &apos;s true -- and i think it &apos;s true -- is the question .
and we &apos;ve also seen this in mobile phones .
oh my goodness , we &apos;re going to reach the 70 percent coverage rate of mobile phones in developing countries by the end of 2013 .
just remember that a massai warrior with a cell phone in the middle of kenya has a better mobile communication than president reagan did 25 years ago .
and if you &apos;re looking for google with your smartphone , you have more access to knowledge and information than president clinton did 15 years ago .
they live in a world that has information and communication in abundance , as no one could have predicted .
and it &apos;s even better , the things that you and i spent several thousand dollars on -- gps , hd video and photos , libraries full of books and music , technology for medical diagnostics -- are now literally dematerialized and cheaper in your cell phone .
and the best part is perhaps what we &apos;re expecting in health .
last month , i had the pleasure of announcing the $ 10 million qualcomm tricorder x prize with the qualcomm foundation .
we challenge teams around the world to connect all these technologies together in a mobile phone so that you can talk to the device , because it &apos;s equipped with ai , you can test in cleaners or your blood values .
and to win , the device has to be diagnosed with a better diagnosis than a team of highly qualified doctors .
can we change it ?
imagine this device , in the middle of a developing country , where there are no doctors , but 25 percent of the disease burden and 1.3 percent of the health care staff .
if this device sequences a rna- or dna virus that &apos;s not known , it calls the department of health and prevents a pandemic from its outbreak .
but now the biggest force that will lead us to a world of abundance .
i call them &quot; the next billion . &quot;
the white lines are for population .
we &apos;ve just crossed the 7-billion-dollar brand .
and just by the way , the biggest insurance against a population explosion is a better education and nutrition around the world .
in 2010 , we had just connected under two billion people online .
by 2020 , we &apos;re predicting from two billion to five billion internet users .
three billion new minds that we &apos;ve never heard of before will join the global communication .
until today , they &apos;re governed by a ritual priesthood , but the training of priesthood is very extraordinary .
maybe returning to an ancient understanding of the relationship between people and the mystery of the creative .
what do these people need ?
what are you going to consume ? what are you going to want ?
and instead of the economic gridlock , i see one of the biggest economic incentives in history .
these people represent several trillion dollars that will flow into the global economy .
and they &apos;re going to be healthier by using the tricoder , and they &apos;re going to be better trained by the khan academy , and by doing so , they &apos;re going to have the opportunity to use 3d printers and infinite computing , and be so much more productive than ever .
so what can three billion growing , healthy , educated , productive members of the human community bring us ?
how about a set of new , unheard , new ones .
how about pushing the oppressed wherever you are to give a voice to pay attention and create change for the first time ?
what are these three billion people going to bring ?
how about contributions that we can &apos;t even predict ?
maybe not .
one of the things that i learned from the x prize is that little teams that are motivated by passion and focus can create extraordinary things , things that big companies and governments could only create in the past .
i want to end with a story that really excited me .
there &apos;s a program that some of you may know .
it &apos;s a game called foldit .
it was developed at the university of washington in seattle .
and it &apos;s a game where people can take a sequence of amino acids to study how the protein will evolve .
and depending on his behavior , we can predict the structure and function .
and this is very important in medical research .
so far , this has been a problem for supercomputers .
and this game was played by university professors and so on .
maybe we can &apos;t just eradicate that thought from 500 years of rational humanism in an 18-minute talk .
and there are now hundreds of thousands of people who have played the game online .
and it showed that today the human pattern recognition is better folding the proteins than the best supercomputers .
and when these people came and looked at who &apos;s the best protein folder in the world , this was not a mit professor , nor was a caltech student , it was somebody from england , manchester , a woman who worked as a assistant of the business director in a rehab clinic at night , and at night was the best protein teacher in the world .
ladies and gentlemen , what gives me enormous confidence in our future is the fact that we have more power than individuals today to face the great challenges of our planet .
we have access to tools with exponential technology .
we have the passion of a diy innovator .
we have the capital of techno-philanthropy .
and we have three billion new minds that we can work with online to master the new challenges , and to do what &apos;s needed .
we expect some extraordinary decades .
thank you .
and there are certainly people in this audience who are really advocating scientific doubt about the idea of -- basically -- fees that people are following and advocating feathers on their projects and so on .
i think we have to do something about a transformative piece of medical culture .
and i think it starts with a medical doctor , and it &apos;s me .
and maybe i &apos;ve been in the business for a long enough time , as that i can allow myself to give up a piece of my own false prestige to allow that to happen .
but before i get to the actual theme of my talk , let &apos;s start with a little bit of baseball .
hey , why not ?
we &apos;re close to the seasonist , and we &apos;re moving to the world championship .
we all love baseball , right ?
baseball is full of great statistics .
and there are hundreds of them .
moneyball soon appears and turns to statistics and to use this great baseball team .
i &apos;m probably not going to be able to take all of you on this journey .
i &apos;m going to talk about a statistic that i hope most of you have heard about before .
it &apos;s the average performance of the bat .
we &apos;re talking about a 300 when a bat hits 300 .
that means that the player is probably beating three out of 10 strokes .
this is called the ball in the field , it comes up , it &apos;s not caught , and who tried to throw the ball to the first base , didn &apos;t do it in time , and the runner was safe .
three out of 10 .
do you know how to call a 3,00ter in major league baseball ?
well , really good , maybe a single star .
you know what a 4,00ter is called ?
this is somebody who is actually hitting four out of 10 , by the way .
but the question i want to throw up is : why not ?
legendary -- like ted williams legendary -- the last major league baseball player who met over 400 times during a regular season .
let &apos;s go back to my medical world , where i feel a lot more comfortable or maybe a little less comfortable after i talked to you about it .
suppose you have a blindfold , and you &apos;re transferred to an operator &apos;s average performance , which is 400 in terms of blindness .
somehow it doesn &apos;t work , right ?
suppose you live in a particular remote area , and you have a beloved person with clogged heart disease , and your doctor is transferring it to a cardiologist whose average performance is 200 .
but , you know what ?
she &apos;s much better this year . she &apos;s on the rising branch .
and she &apos;s beating a 257 .
somehow it doesn &apos;t work .
but i &apos;m going to ask you a question .
why not think about it that way ?
what do you think of as the average performance for a cardiologist or a nurse or an orthopedic , a birthday worker , should be a rescue assistant ?
1,000 , very good .
the truth is that no one in all medicine knows what a good surgeon or a doctor or a rescue assistant should be .
but what we &apos;re doing is we &apos;re going to send each and every one of them , including me , into the world with the claim to be perfect .
no one ever makes a mistake , but no one is worried about the details of how to do this .
and this is the message i took in medical school .
i was a compulsive obsessive student .
in high school , a fellow student said that brian goldmann would learn for a blood test .
and it was .
and i learned in my little sixth grade in the sisters residence at the toronto general hospital , not far from here .
because it makes just as much sense as anything else i &apos;ve heard about when it comes to explaining the absolutely crazy power of the creative process .
i learned everything memorized .
in my anatomic lecture , i learned the origins and runners of every muscle , every branch of every artery that takes away from the aorta , obscure and ordinary differential diagnosis .
i even knew the differential diagnosis to classify renal tubula azidosis .
and over time , i collected more and more knowledge .
and i was good , i graduated with cum laude .
and i left medical school with the impression that if i knew everything and knew everything , or at least as much as possible , i was as close to complete as possible , that i was immune to making errors .
and it worked for a while , until i met a woman printer .
i resisted at a teaching hospital here in toronto , as a woman printer , to me , to the emergency room department .
at that point , i was proven to be the cardiology layer in the cardiology service .
and it was my assignment when the emergency staff was looking for cardiological advice to study the emergency patient .
a process that -- as anyone who has ever tried to do something -- so in other words , everybody here -- doesn &apos;t always behave reasonably .
and to give back to my top doctor .
i studied a woman printer , and she was in respiratory .
and when i listened to her , she made crushing sounds .
and when i heard her chest with the stethoscope , i could hear a crunching sound on both sides , which told me that she suffered a congestive heart failure .
this is a state in which the heart is failing , instead of pumping all the blood on , a part of the blood is stuck in the lung and filling it up gradually , so the shortcut came .
and that wasn &apos;t a hard diagnosis .
i put them on the treatment , and i went to the treatment .
i gave her aspirin . i gave her medicine to take the pressure of the heart .
i gave her medicine , which we call diuretics , and i gave her water pills so that she would leave the liquid .
and over a period of one and a half to two hours , she started to feel better .
in fact , sometimes it can feel really paranormal .
i felt really good .
and i made my first mistake ; i sent them home .
actually , i made two mistakes .
i sent her home without talking to my top doctor .
i didn &apos;t pick up the audience , and i did what i should have , what would have been a call to my top doctor to explain it to him , so that he would have had a chance to take a picture .
and he knew that he would have been able to contribute additional information to it .
maybe i did it with good reason .
maybe i didn &apos;t want to be the assistant doctor .
maybe i wanted to be so successful and so capable of taking responsibility that i was acting like this , and so i would be able to take care of my patients without having to contact him .
my second mistake was worse .
the young acolyths are separated from their families at the age of three and four , and in a shadow world of the finstar , in stone huts at the bottom of the glacier for 18 years , two times of nine , intentionally chosen to mimic the nine months of pregnancy that they were living in the lap of their quiet mother , they now spend metamorphically in the lap of the great mother .
i had such an encounter recently when i met the extraordinary american poet , ruth stone , who is now over 90 , but has been a poet all of her life . she told me that when she grew up in the villages of virginia , she was working outside on the fields . she said she could feel and hear how a poem came up over the landscape .
by doing so , i sent them home , i missed a quiet voice in me , trying to tell me , &quot; goldman , not a good idea . don &apos;t do that . &quot;
in fact , i was so wrong with self-security that i asked the nurse who was taking care of the woman , &quot; do you think it &apos;s okay when she goes home ? &quot;
and the nurse thought about it and said , in fact , &quot; yeah , i think she &apos;s going to be okay . &quot;
i remember it was yesterday .
so i signed the indulgence papers and a ambulance and rescue assistants came and brought them home .
and i went back to work .
the rest of the day , i had this nagging feeling in my stomach .
but i kept working .
and at the end of the day , i grabbed my stuff , i left the hospital , and i went to the parking lot to drive home with the car when i did something i didn &apos;t do otherwise .
i went home through the emergency department on my way .
she said it was like a thunderous train of air .
and there , another nurse said , not the sister who had seen printer after woman , but another three words to me , and those three words fear most of the emergency doctors i know .
other medical professionals are also afraid of this , but the emergency room medicine is particularly special because we only see the patients fleeting like this .
the three words were : remember ?
&quot; remember the patients they sent home ? &quot;
the nurse asked the nurse .
&quot; well , she &apos;s back , &quot; she said in this particular audio .
so she was back .
she was back and dying .
about an hour after she got home , after i sent her home , she collapsed , and the family called 911 , and the rescue assistants brought her back to the emergency room with a blood pressure of 50 , which is a dangerous shock condition .
she hardly breathed , and she had run blue .
that would roll over the country .
the emergency staff was pulling all the strands .
they gave her blood pressure increased .
they hooked it up to the beating machine .
i was shocked and moved to the inside .
and i lived through this rollercoaster because it came to the intensive care after the stabilization , and i hoped that it would recover .
and after two , three days , she realized that she would never wake up again .
she had suffered a non-treatable brain damage .
her family gathered together .
and over the course of the next eight or nine days , they returned to it .
the other day , they had them go -- woman printer , woman , mother and grandmother .
she felt when it came , because it would bring the earth under her feet to the earthquake .
it &apos;s said that you don &apos;t forget the names of those who die .
and that was the first time i learned this .
the next couple of weeks , i went to design , and i learned for the first time the unhealthy shame that exists in our medical culture -- i felt alone , isolated , not the kind of healthy shame that you feel , because you can &apos;t talk to the colleagues .
you all know the healthy shame , if you give a secret to the best friend &apos;s price , even though that one swells up on wholeness and then you get caught and the best friend confronts you with it and gives you a terrible discussion , but at the end of the day , the bad conscience leads you , and you swear that you never make a mistake like that again .
if you do restoration and you never make the mistake again .
this is the kind of educational shame .
the unhealthy way i &apos;m talking about it is the one that makes you sick inside .
it &apos;s the one who tells you that not what you &apos;ve done is bad , but that you &apos;re bad at yourself .
and that &apos;s what i felt .
and it wasn &apos;t because of my chief , he was very dear .
she knew that in such a moment she could only do one , and that was -- in her words -- she was running like the devil .
he was talking to the family , and i &apos;m sure he was going to save the wounds and make sure i wasn &apos;t going to be sued .
but i continued to ask myself these questions .
why didn &apos;t i ask the top doctor ? why did i send her home ?
and then in my worst moments , how could i make such a stupid mistake ?
why did i go to medicine ?
slowly , it made it safe .
i started to feel better .
and then on a weeped day , there was a hole in the clouds , and the sun broke out , and i said maybe i could feel better again .
and i negotiated with myself that if i doubled my efforts for perfection , and never again made a mistake that the voice could stumble .
and she did .
she ran like the devil to the house while she was pursued by this poem , and it was only about the fact that she had to quickly get enough to a sheet of paper and a pen , so she could catch it through her and hold it on the sheet .
and i kept working .
and then it happened again .
two years later , i had service in the emergency room in a community hospital north of toronto , and i reviewed a 25-year-old man with a rich rake .
it was a lot going on , and i was in the hurry .
he always showed up here .
i looked in the pile , and it was a little pink .
and i gave him a prescription for penicillin and sent him on .
and even as he walked out the door , he pointed at his rake .
two days later , i came to my next emergency service , and my chief friend asked me to talk to her office .
and she said the three words : remember ?
in other paintings , she wasn &apos;t fast enough . she ran and ran and ran , but she didn &apos;t reach the house , and the poem rolled through her , and she missed it . she said it would move across the country , and , as she said , look for another poet .
&quot; do you remember the patient with the stretched rake ? &quot;
it turns out he &apos;s infected a streptococccus infection .
he had a potentially dangerous life-threatening disease called epiglottitis .
you can google that , but it &apos;s not an infection of the rachens , but it &apos;s the upper respiratory pathways , and it causes the breathes .
and fortunately , he didn &apos;t die .
he got intravous antibotica and recovered a few days later .
and i went back through the same torture of shame and self-doubt , felt liberated and went to work until it happened again and again and again .
in an emergency class , i &apos;ve missed two times a blindfold .
there &apos;s a lot of stuff going on , especially if you think you &apos;re working in a hospital that had only 14 patients per night at that time .
in both cases , i didn &apos;t send them home , and i didn &apos;t think there was a lack of treatment .
and then there were these moments -- i &apos;ll never forget the part -- she said that there were moments when she nearly missed it .
one thought i had kidney rocks .
i arranged the x-ray of the kidneys , and when that was without any evidence , my colleague , in the revision of the patient , set up a hardening in the lower right sector , and called the operators .
the other one had strong diarrhea .
i would order fluide to rehydrate him and ask my colleagues to review him as well .
and he did , and when he found a hardening in the lower right sector , he called the operators .
in both cases , they had surgery , and they were fine .
both cases nailed to me , asked me .
and i would be happy to tell you that my worst mistake was only in the first five years , which many of my colleagues say , but is total nonsense .
some of my blocks have happened in the last five years .
alone , damaged and unsupported .
so , she &apos;s running to the house , and she &apos;s looking for the paper , and the poem is going through her , and she &apos;s grabbing a pen just as it &apos;s going through her , and then -- she said -- it was as if it was going to reach out and grab it with her other hand and get it .
here &apos;s the problem : if i can &apos;t close with my mistakes and talk about them , if i have the quiet voice that tells me what really wasn &apos;t going to happen , how can i share it with my colleagues ?
how can i teach them my mistakes so that they don &apos;t do the same thing ?
if i went into a room -- like right now , i have no idea what you &apos;re thinking about me .
when was the last time you heard about someone who was talking about failure about failure ?
oh yeah , you go to a cocktail party and you may hear about some other doctor , but you won &apos;t hear somebody talk about your own mistakes .
if i were to go into a room full of colleagues and ask their immediate support and start telling them what i just told you , i would not be very likely to reach the end of the second story before they really got uncomfortable , anyone would put a joke in , they would change the topic and forget the rest .
and in fact , if i knew , or my colleagues , that an orthopedic in my hospital had taken off someone &apos;s wrong leg , believe me that i had trouble looking into their eyes .
this is the system that we live in .
it &apos;s a totally denial of errors .
it &apos;s a system where there are two basic positions -- those who make mistakes and those who don &apos;t . those who constrain sleep deprivation and the without constraints , the bad results and the good results .
she caught the poem on his tail , and she pulled it back into her body , and she took it back to the sheet of paper .
it &apos;s almost an ideological reaction like antibodies attacking a human being .
and there &apos;s the idea that if we get those who make errors out of medicine , that we have a safe system .
but there are two problems with this .
in my 20-some years of medical sensation and journalism , i &apos;ve created a personal medical study on medical errors and false treatments to learn everything i could for a first article i wrote for the toronto star to my show , &quot; white coat , black art . &quot;
and what i learned is that mistakes are absolutely inconvenient .
we work in a system where errors happen every day , where either one out of 10 medications is a false or wrong dose , where hospital infections are always getting more and more numerous and causing devastation or dead .
in this state , about 24,000 canadians die of common errors .
in the united states , the institute of medicine is deciphering the number of 100,000 .
both are strong underfuels , because we don &apos;t look at the problem as much as we should .
and it &apos;s the crux .
and all this time , they are culturally introduced to the values of their society , values that sustain the claim that their prayers and only their prayers , the cosmic -- or we could say the ecological -- sustain balance .
in these opportunities , the poem came in free and intact on paper -- but backwards -- from the last word to the first .
in a hospital system where medical knowledge doubles every two or three years , we can &apos;t keep up .
sleep deprivation is ubiquitous .
we can &apos;t get rid of it .
we have a cognitive error , so that we can take a perfect pathology for a patient with a breast pain .
then i take the same patient with chest pain , and i make it sweaty , and i give him a little bit of alcoholized breath , and all of a sudden the story is done with contempt .
i &apos;m not taking the same course .
i &apos;m not a robot ; i don &apos;t always do things the same way .
and my patients are not cars ; they don &apos;t always tell me their symptoms in the same way .
all of this in summary is inevitable to error .
so if you take the system as i was taught , and you place all the errors of health professionals , there &apos;s no one left .
when i heard that , i thought that was kind of creepy -- that &apos;s exactly how my creative process is going on .
and you know the leaders of people who don &apos;t want to talk about their worst cases ?
in my show , &quot; white coat , black art , &quot; i have the habit of saying , &quot; this is my worst mistake , &quot; i would say to everyone from the rescue assistant to the chief of the cardiologist , &quot; this is my worst mistake , &quot; blah , blah , blah , blah , blah , blah , &quot; what about yours ? &quot; and then i &apos;ll show with the microphone .
and then their pupils are expanding , they &apos;re pouring in front of their head , then they look down and they &apos;re hard to swallow , and they &apos;re starting to tell their stories .
they want to tell their stories . they want to share their stories .
you want to be able to say , &quot; look , don &apos;t make the same mistakes i made . &quot;
what you need is an environment that you &apos;re able to do that .
what you need is a new medical culture .
and it starts with a doctor .
the newly defined doctor is a human being , white to his humanity , accepting it , is not proud to make mistakes , but it all sets up to learn from them so that it can be passed on .
she shares her experiences with others .
it &apos;s not like my creative process at all -- i &apos;m not the channel !
it supports others when they talk about their mistakes .
and it shows others their mistakes , not to just make them happen , but in a loving , supportive way , so that they all benefit from it .
and she works in a medical culture that recognizes that people fill the system with life , and if it is , then people make mistakes from time to time .
so that the system is evolving to make backups that make it easier to make errors that make people inevitable , and it also enables loving , supportive spaces in which anyone watching health care can actually address things that are potential mistakes and even rewarded for them , and that in particular for people like me who make mistakes and should be rewarded for the gratification of those rewards .
my name is brian goldman .
i &apos;m the new defined doctor .
i &apos;m a human . i make mistakes .
but i &apos;m very fortunate , but i &apos;m trying to learn best to pass it on to others .
i don &apos;t know what they think of me , but i can live with that .
let me close with three of my own words : i remember .
i &apos;m a multina . to be able to work , i have to stand up every day at the same time and sweat , struggle and really uncomfortable .
i &apos;m going to talk about a tiny , little idea .
it &apos;s about changing standards .
and because you can explain this idea in a minute , i &apos;m going to tell you three stories before to use time .
the first story is about charles darwin , one of my heroes .
you know , he was here in 1835 .
you may think he was chasing finks , but that &apos;s not true .
he actually collected fish .
he described one of them as very common .
it was a grouper .
until the &apos; 80s , he was fished in a big way .
but even i was in my masonry sometimes riding this thing .
now he &apos;s on the red list of endangered species .
we &apos;ve heard this story many times from the galapagos or other places , it &apos;s not very special .
but we still get to the galapagos .
we still think they &apos;re originally .
the brochures still describe them as untouched .
what happened here ?
the second story is to illustrate a different concept , the variable range of borders .
because i experienced it when i studied a lagoon in west africa in 1971 .
i went there because i grew up in europe , and i wanted to work in africa later .
i thought i could integrate .
and i guess many of you did .
and i got a bad sunburn , and i was convinced that i really didn &apos;t come from there .
it was my first sunburn .
as you can see , the lagoon of palms and some mangroves was surrounded by .
there were buntbarans of about 20 centimeters , black cushions , a subspecies of the buntbarian .
the fisheries of these bunk were very productive , and the fishermen lived well on average and deserved in ghana .
when i returned to that 27 years later , the fish was shrinked to half its size .
they &apos;re growing five centimeters .
they had been genetically squeezed .
it was still fish .
people were still happy .
even i had work or ideas that came through from a source through me that i really can &apos;t identify .
and the fish were also lucky enough to be there .
so nothing has changed , and yet everything has changed .
my third little story is about my participation in the introduction of the trawling net fishery in southeast asia .
in the &apos; 70s -- rather in the early &apos; 60s -- europe promoted a lot of development projects .
fish promotion meant countries that started already 100,000 fish , the industrial fishing of this pretty ugly ship is called mutiara 4 .
i drove on it , and we did inhibitors all over the southern south china sea , and especially in the javasee .
we didn &apos;t have words for what we started there .
now i know it was the reason for the ocean .
90 percent of our beginning was sponges , other animals that are connected to the reason .
most of the fish , the small dots there on the rubber , the trumber pile , were coral reef fish .
what is this thing ?
basically , the bottom of the ocean came to deck , and then it was thrown back .
these images are extraordinary , because the transition goes very fast .
within a year , you take a survey and then you start with the commercial fishing .
the reason is changed . for -- in this case , a hard reason or soft coral is becoming a masher crap .
this is a dead turtle .
they weren &apos;t eaten ; they were thrown away because they were dead .
one time , we caught a living one .
she wasn &apos;t drowned yet .
then they wanted to kill them , because you could eat them well .
in fact , this mountain is collected by trumps every time by fishermen , when they drive into areas that have never been fished .
and how do we relate to it without losing our minds , but rather keeping ourselves in mental health ?
but it &apos;s not documented .
we change the world , but we don &apos;t remember it .
we adjust our standards to the new level , and we don &apos;t remember what was there .
when you generalize it , this is what happens .
on the y-axis , there are some good things : biodiversity , number of orca , the green of your country , the water supply .
it &apos;s changing over time . it &apos;s changing , because for people , their actions are completely natural .
every generation looks at the images that they take at the beginning of their conscious lives as a standard and will derive everything from it .
the difference is then perceived as a loss .
but they don &apos;t notice the previous losses .
there can be a series of changes .
for me , the best living example of how to do this is to get the musician tom waits . i got to interview him a few years ago for a magazine .
and in the end , you just want to get the pathetic remains .
that &apos;s our goal , largely now .
we want to get things that have disappeared or things that are no longer the way they were .
now you might think that the problem was to look at people who certainly lived in predatory societies , killed animals when they lived in predator societies , and who only realized a few generations after what they had done .
because obviously , an animal that was very common is rarely before it dies .
so you don &apos;t lose very often occurring animals .
you lose rare animals .
and that &apos;s why it &apos;s not perceived as a huge loss .
over time , we &apos;re focusing on the big animals , and in the sea , these are the big fish .
they get rarer because we catch them .
at the end of this amazing initiation , you &apos;re suddenly taken out and for the first time in your life , at the age of 18 , you see a sunrise . and in this crystal moment of consciousness , when the sun begins to rape on the hangs of the amazingly beautiful landscape , all of a sudden everything you &apos;ve learned in the abstract level is amazing . and the priest comes back and says , &quot; you see ? it &apos;s really how i told you .
we talked about this topic . and you know what ? most of his life , tom was the embodiment of the enigned modern artist who tried to dominate these uncontrollable creative impulses that lived in him and deal with them .
over time , there &apos;s little fish left , and we think that &apos;s the standard value .
the question is , why do people accept this ?
well , because they don &apos;t know it was once different .
of course , many people , scientists , will confirm that it was really different .
they &apos;re going to confirm it , because the evidence of how they were in an earlier form is not as they would like to present the evidence .
there is , for example , the anecdote that the report of a capitalist soundso that was watching big fish provisions in this area can &apos;t be used , or fishermen scientists don &apos;t usually be used because it &apos;s not &quot; scientific . &quot;
so we have a situation where people don &apos;t know the past , even though we live in educated societies , because they don &apos;t trust the sources of the past .
this shows the huge role that a marine protected area can play .
because through marine protected areas , we &apos;re basically restoring the past .
we &apos;re restoring the past that people can &apos;t understand , because the normal values have changed and are very low .
but then he got older and quieter , and he told me that one day he was driving on a highway in los angeles , and it all changed for him .
so the people who see a marine protected area can benefit from the insight that allows them to restore their normal values .
what about the people who can &apos;t do that because they don &apos;t have access -- the people in the midwest , for example ?
here , i think , the art and the film may fill the gap , and simulations .
this is the simulation of chesapeake bay .
a long time ago , there were gray whales -- 500 years ago .
and the colors and the shadows , you may remember &quot; avatar . &quot;
when you think about &quot; avatar , &quot; when you think about why people were so touched by it -- except for the pocahon-story , why were you so touched by the image world ?
because it has something that has been lost in some way .
so my recommendation , the only one i &apos;m going to give , is to cameron to turn &quot; avatar ii &quot; underwater .
thank you .
he was driving at high speed when he suddenly hears a little fragment of a melody , which , as is often inspiring , is really hard to grasp it . and he wants to have it . it &apos;s gorgeous . he &apos;s letting for it , but he can &apos;t grasp it .
in the &apos; 80s , in the communist east germany , if you had a typewriter , you had to register it in the government .
they also had to register a leaf of precedent from this typewriter .
the reason for this : the government could track back where a text came from .
they found an article with false thought , they could detect the creator of this thought .
and we in the west couldn &apos;t understand how anyone could do this , and how much that would limit freedom of speech .
in our own countries , we would never do that .
but if you buy a new color laser printer in 2011 from the leading laser printing factories and print a page , this page has printed yellow blobs on every page , in a pattern that clearly makes the page go back to you and their printer .
that &apos;s what happens to us today .
and nobody seems to be upset about that .
and this was an example of how our own governments are using technology against us , citizens .
he has no piece of paper , he has no pen , he has no tape recorder .
and this is one of the three main sources of the online problems that exist today .
let &apos;s look at what &apos;s really happening in the world : we can split the attacks into categories .
we have three main groups .
there are online criminals .
for example , this is mr. dimitry golubow from kiew in ukraine .
and the motives of online criminals are very easy to understand .
these people make money .
they use online attacks to make a lot of money , a huge amount of money .
there are several known cases of online millionaires , multimillionaires , who have made their money through attacks .
this is wladimir tsastsin from tartu in estonia .
so he starts to climb this old adhesive in him , like , i &apos;m going to lose this thing , and he &apos;s going to be tracked by this song forever .
this is alfred gonzalez .
stephen watts .
bjoun sundin .
this is matthew anderson , tariq al-daour and so on and so on .
these people have come online to wealth , but they &apos;ve legally acquired it by using trojans to steal money from our bank accounts while we &apos;re doing our online banking , or keyloggers , who have collected our credit card information on the keyboard , while buying on an infected computer online .
the u.s. intelligence agency fror , two months ago , the swiss account of mr. sam jain here , and on this account , 14.9 million dollars was frozen .
mr. jain himself is on its own foot , the location is unknown .
and i &apos;m saying today that it &apos;s more likely that we will be victims of an online crime than a crime in the real world .
and it &apos;s very obvious that this is just going to get worse .
in the future , most crimes are going to play online .
i &apos;m not good enough ; i &apos;m not able to do it .
the second largest attacker group we can see today is not motivated by money .
they &apos;re motivated by something else -- protests , for example , an opinion , or by their audience .
groups like anonymous have gone up over the last 12 months and become one of the main players in the field of online attacks .
so these are the three main flu groups : criminals who are doing it for money , hackactivists like anonymous , who are resistant to it , but the last group are nations , governments who are running the attacks .
we have cases like diginotar .
it shows , for example , what happens when governments attack their own citizens .
diginotar is a complete certificate from the netherlands -- or it was .
last fall , it had to sign insolance , because diginotar had been hacked .
somebody had broken in and hacked the system thoroughly .
and last week in a meeting with dutch government officials , i asked one of the leaders of this group to ask if he made it possible that people had died because of the diginotar hack .
but instead of panicking , he just stopped .
and his answer was &quot; yes . &quot;
now , how do people die in the aftermath of such a hack ?
diginotar is a certification site .
they sell certificates .
what do you do with certificates ?
now , a certificate , if you have a website with https , you have ssl encrypted services , for example , gmail .
now we all use , or many of us , gmail or one of their competitors , but these services are particularly common in totalitarian states like iran , where dissidents use foreign providers like gmail , because they know that they can trust them more than local providers and that they &apos;re encrypted over ssl connections , so the local government can &apos;t sniff around their talks .
but can you do it if you go into a foreign foreign .
certification agencies make hacks and fake certificates .
and that &apos;s exactly what happened in the case of diginotar .
he ended the whole thought and did something completely new .
how about the arab spring and the things that happened in egypt , for example ?
now , in egypt , the insurgency of april 2011 , the headquarters of egyptian intelligence , and they found a lot of action .
in these acts , there was a folder called &quot; finfisher . &quot;
and in this folder , notes were a local company in germany that the egyptian government had sold a few programs that they could catch -- in very large scale -- any communication of the egyptian citizens .
they had sold this program for 280,000 euros to the egyptian government .
the corporate headquarters is right here .
so western governments are providing totalitarian governments with tools so that they can go against their own citizens .
but western governments also help themselves .
for example , in germany , just a few weeks ago , the so-called state straddler found , which was a trojan who was used by german government officials to pitch their own citizens .
if you &apos;re suspected in a criminal case , it &apos;s pretty safe to tap your phone .
he just looked up in the sky and said , excuse me , can &apos;t you see that i &apos;m driving ?
but today we are far beyond that .
they tap into their internet connection .
they use tools like the state straddler to play their computer with a trojan who allows them to monitor their entire communication , listen to their online discussions , collect their passwords .
so if we keep thinking about things like this , people &apos;s obvious answer would be , &quot; ok , that sounds bad , but it doesn &apos;t matter to me , because i &apos;m a good citizen .
i don &apos;t have to worry .
i have nothing to hide . &quot;
and this argument doesn &apos;t make sense .
privacy must be given .
privacy is not about debate .
it &apos;s not a decision between privacy and security .
i look like i could just write down a song ?
it &apos;s a decision between freedom and control .
and while today , in 2011 , we may trust our governments , every right we give away is forever given .
and do we trust , blind to every future government , a government that we may have in 50 years ?
these are the questions that we have to deal with for the next 50 years .
it may seem strange to you , but i &apos;m a big fan of concrete block .
the first concrete blocks were made in 1868 , and they came up with a simple idea : module from cement with a fixed set of measurements that fit together .
concrete building blocks very quickly became the most used building unit in the world .
they put us in the position of building things larger than us , buildings , bridges , one after the other .
basically , the concrete building block had become the building block of our time .
almost a hundred years later , in 1947 , lego came out with this .
it &apos;s so wonderful . you have to protect it . &quot;
if you really want to exist , come back to a cheaper moment , if i can take care of you .
it was called the automatically bonding stone .
and within a few years , lego moved into every household .
it &apos;s estimated that over 400 billion rocks have been produced -- or 75 stones for each person on the planet .
they don &apos;t have to be an engineer to create beautiful houses , beautiful bridges or beautiful buildings .
lego made it possible for everyone .
lego basically took the concrete building block , the building block of the world , and made it a building block for our imagination .
in the meantime , in the same year at bell labs , the next revolution was announced , the next building block .
the transistor was a little plastic unit that would take us from a world of static , interconnected building blocks to a world where everything was interactive .
like the concrete block , the transistor allows us to build much larger , more complex cycles , one after the other .
but there &apos;s one key difference : the transistor was just for experts .
if not , squares somebody else today .
i personally don &apos;t accept that the building block of our time is reserved for experts , and so i decided to change that .
eight years ago , i was at the media lab , and i started to explore this idea of how to put the power of engineers in the hand of artists and designers .
a few years ago , i started to develop littlebits .
let me show you how they work .
littlebits are electronic modules that have a specific function .
they &apos;re designed to be light , tone , engine and sensor .
and the best part is that they connect with magnets .
you can &apos;t put them around like this .
the stones are color coded .
green is an issue , blue is electricity , pink is input , and orange is cable .
go and squawk leonard cohen .
so all you have to do is connect a blue one and a green one , and you can quickly build bigger circles .
you add a blue one to a green one , and you can make light .
you can put a switch in between , and so you &apos;ve created a little dimmer .
take the switch out to put in a pulsmodule , which is here , and they made a little blind .
add this buzzer to an additional effect , and they made a noise machine .
i &apos;m going to stop that .
beyond the simple play , littlebits is actually quite powerful .
instead of having to code , wired or solve , littlebits allows them to code with simple , intuitive gestures .
so to accelerate or slow it down , you just turn on this button , and it makes the impulse faster or slower .
the idea behind littlebits is that it &apos;s a growing library .
his whole process of work has changed after that .
we want to bring every single interaction in the world into a consumable stone .
lights , sounds , solar elements , motors -- everything should be available .
we &apos;ve distributed littlebits to children , and you see them playing with it .
and it was an incredible experience .
the most beautiful thing is how they start to understand the electronics that they surround in their everyday lives and they don &apos;t learn in school .
for example , how a night light works , or why the doors of the elevator remain open , or how an ipod responds to touch .
we also brought littlebits to design schools .
so for example , we had designers with no experience in electronic things that started playing with littlebits as a material .
here we see , with film , paper and water bottles , like geordie ...
a few weeks ago , we took littlebits to risd , and we gave them some designers who had no technical experience -- just cardboard , wood and paper -- and told them , &quot; do something . &quot;
not the work itself . it was often as dark as ever .
here &apos;s an example of a project they did , a motion-controlled confetti-cannon .
but wait , this is really my favorite project .
it &apos;s a hummer of play-doh , which is scared in the dark .
for this non-engineer , littlebits became another material , electronics became just another material .
and we want to make this material available for everyone .
so littlebits is open source .
you can go to the website , download all the design benefits and make them yourself .
we want to encourage the world of the creators , the inventors , the contributors , because this world that we live in belongs to this interactive world .
so , go ahead and start inventing them .
thank you .
but the process and the severe adhesive that surrounds it was lifted when he took the genius out of him , where he did nothing but trouble and left him where he came from . he realized that it didn &apos;t have to be an internal , agonizing thing .
there could be a strange , wonderful , bizarre collaboration , a kind of conversation between tom and the strange , external thing that wasn &apos;t quite tom .
when i heard this story , it also changed the way i worked , and it saved me .
this idea rescued me when i was in the middle of the writing process of na eat , pray , love , and i fell into one of these pills of doubt that we all fall into when we work on something and it doesn &apos;t work . you start to think that it &apos;s a disaster . that &apos;s the worst book ever written .
not just bad , but the worst of all time .
they call themselves the older brothers , and they say we are responsible for the destruction of the world .
i started to think i should just put the project in .
but then i remembered tom talking in the free sky , and i tried .
so i took my view of the manuscript and i spoke my commentary towards an empty corner of the room .
i spoke loudly : listen , you thing , you and i both know , if this book is not brilliant , it &apos;s not completely my fault , right ?
because you see that i &apos;m investing everything i have . i don &apos;t have any more than that .
so if you want to have it better , you have to cross here and hold your percentage of the deal .
okay . but if you don &apos;t do that , you know what , the hell with it .
i &apos;m going to keep writing , because that &apos;s my job .
and i &apos;d like to say to protocol that i was here for my part of the job today .
because ... at the end , it &apos;s like this . centuries ago , in the deserts of north africa , people have gathered together with sacred dances and music that were held for hours -- until the dawn .
now this level of intuition becomes very important .
these fests were always great , because the dancers were professional , and they were fantastic .
but every once in a while , very rarely , something special happened , and one of the performers actually became transcendent .
and i know you know what i mean , because i know you &apos;ve all seen a performance like this in your life .
it was like the time was standing still and the dancer was kind of going through a pforte , and he didn &apos;t do anything but he ever did it -- 1,000 nights before , but it all came together .
and all of a sudden , he no longer appeared completely human .
it was illuminated from the inside , and it was lit up from the bottom , and everything was illuminating through a divine fire .
when something like this happened , people knew what it was . they called it on his name .
they put their hands together , and they started singing , &quot; ah , allah , allah , god , god , god . &quot;
this is god , you know ?
interesting historical footnote : when the mosquitos were conquering south spain , they brought in this practice . the language changed over the centuries of the incentive , allah , allah , the allah agent , olé , who you still hear when you &apos;re fighting and flamencodancing .
every time we think of innate and landscape , we either complain rousseau and the old scaffold of the noble wild , which is a racial thought in its simplification , or thoreau , and say , these people are more connected to nature than we are .
if a performer in spain did something impossible , a magical thing : the allah , the olé , the allah , the great , the bravo , it &apos;s there : a glimpse of god .
and that &apos;s great , because we need that .
but , the tricky part follows the next morning when the dancer wakes up himself and realizes that it &apos;s 11 o &apos;clock on a tuesday -- and he no longer has a fifth of god in him .
he &apos;s just an aging mortal with painful knees , and maybe he &apos;ll never climb back to those heights .
and maybe nobody will ever call god &apos;s name again when they turn , but what do they do with the rest of their life ?
that &apos;s hard .
this is one of the most painful corrections of a creative life .
but maybe it doesn &apos;t have to be so full of embarrassment if you didn &apos;t believe from the beginning that the most extraordinary aspects of your existence came from you .
if you may just believe that you &apos;re a loan -- from an incredible source of a reader time of your life that &apos;s passed on to somebody else when you &apos;re done with it .
when we start thinking about it , it changes everything .
so , infants are not sentimental , nor are they chosen by nostalgia .
that &apos;s how i started thinking , and that &apos;s certainly how i think in the last few months , while i was working on the book that &apos;s going to seem soon -- as the dangerous , scary , strongly expected successes of my driving .
what i have to say to myself all the time when i get crazy about this is : don &apos;t be afraid .
don &apos;t be discouraged .
just do your job .
keep on there for your contribution , whatever he wants to be .
if your job is dance , dance .
if the dumb divine genius that you &apos;re put aside decides for a moment to show a smoke of wonder through your efforts , it &apos;s going to take care of .
and if not , still dance your dance .
and it &apos;s like , &quot; oh , all of you . &quot;
i believe that , and i feel like we should teach that .
there &apos;s not a lot of room for it in the malaria swells of asmat or the cold winds of tibet , but they still , through time and ritual , have shaped a mysterious nimbus of the earth , which is not based on the idea of being consciously close , but on a far more subtle intuition , the idea that the earth can only exist in itself because it &apos;s breathed into human consciousness .
it &apos;s like , in spite of all this , just for you to have the mere human love and self-sense of being there .
thank you .
thank you .
olé !
last year , i showed these two slides to illustrate that the arctic ice caps , which for nearly three million years had the size of the bottom 48 states , had shrunk 40 percent .
but that doesn &apos;t really push the seriousness of this particular problem , because it doesn &apos;t show the thick of the ice .
in a sense , the arctic ice caps is the beating heart of our global climate system .
it grows in winter and it shrinks in summer .
the next slide i &apos;m going to show you is a time-lapse picture of what &apos;s happened in the last 25 years .
the permanent ice is marked with red .
now , what does that mean ?
as you can see , it grows on the dark blue , this is the annual ice in winter , and it shrinks in summer .
the so-called permanent ice , five years old or older , is almost like blood flowing out of the body here .
in 25 years , it will be gone from here to here .
this is a problem , because warming is the frozen reason for the arctic ocean , where there are huge amounts of frozen carbon , which , when it &apos;s going up , is transformed from microbes to methane .
compared to the entire amount of climate change in the atmosphere , it could double if we pass this critical point .
already today , in some flat lakes in alaska methane , methane itself from the water .
professor katey walter at university in alaska has traveled with another group of work to another flat seas last winter .
wow !
you &apos;re fine . the question is , how are we going to do it ?
and one reason is that this enormous heat sticker heats greenland from the north .
it means that a little kid from the andean who grows up in the belief that the mountain is an apu-spirit that can be or determines her destiny will become a very different person , and will have a different relationship with this resource or this place , as a little child from montana , who grows up in the belief that a mountain is a pile of rocks that can be carried .
this is an annual dive flow .
but volume is significantly larger than ever before .
this is the cangerlussuaq river in southwest greenland .
if you want to know how the sea level goes through the land ice sheet , it &apos;s going up here .
these rivers are rapidly accepting .
on the other end of the planet , antarctica , the largest ice mass on the planet .
last month , researchers reported that the entire continent now has a negative ice sheet .
and the west antarctica , which has appeared over a few underwater islands , is especially strong in melting .
this is 20 feet high , like greenland .
in the himalayas , the third largest ice mass , you see new lakes that were glaciers a few years ago .
whether it &apos;s a place for a mind or a bunch of inheritance is irrelevant .
40 percent of all the people in the world get half of their drinking water from that melting water .
in the andes , this glacier is the drinking water source for this city .
the amount of water has increased .
but when you seal , most of the drinking water will fall away .
in california , a 40 percent reduction in the snow ceiling of the sierra .
this is in the basin of the memory .
and the predictions , as you read them , are serious .
this austrocement around the world leads to a dramatic increase in fire .
and the catastrophes all over the world have increased in a really extraordinary and unprecedented extent .
four times as many in the last 30 years as in the previous 75 .
the interesting thing is the metaphor that defines the relationship between the individual and the nature .
this is a completely unsustainable development pattern .
if you look at this in the historical context , you can see what it &apos;s doing .
in the last five years , we &apos;ve produced 70 million tons of co2 every 24 hours -- 25 million tons every day into the oceans .
look carefully at the domain of the eastern pacific , the american continent western and both beyond the indian subcontinent , where there is a dramatic decline of oxygen in the ocean .
the biggest single factor for global warming , besides deforestation , which is 20 percent , is burning fossil fuels .
oil is a problem , and coal is the biggest problem .
the united states is one of the two largest pollutants along with china .
and the proposal was to build a lot of other coal-fired factories .
but we &apos;re starting to see a change .
here are the ones that have been wiped out in the last few years with some green alternatives that have been proposed .
i grew up in the forests of british colombia , and i believed that these forests were there to be devastated .
meanwhile , there &apos;s a political argument in our country .
and the coal industries and oil industries have spent a quarter billion dollars last calendar year to promote clean coal , which is a contradiction in itself .
this picture reminded me of something .
around christmas , at home in tennessee , a billion tons of coal bulb .
you &apos;ve probably seen it in the news .
this is the second largest waste river in america in our entire country .
this was happening for christmas .
one of the commercials of the coal industry for christmas was this .
frosty the carbon man is a happy , happy guy .
it &apos;s in skin and abundance in america , and it helps to grow our economy .
this made me a different human being than my friends under the kwakiutl , who believe that these forests would be the place of hukuk and the curved sky snaces and the cannibalic spirits that live in the north of the world , spirits that they would participate in their hamatsa initiation .
frosty , the carbon man gets cleaner every day .
he &apos;s affordable and loving , and workers remain in wage and bread .
this is the source of most coal in west virginia .
the most powerful miner is the head of massey coal .
let me say one very clearly : al gore , nancy pelosi , harry reid , you don &apos;t know what you &apos;re talking about .
so the alliance for climate change has started two campaigns .
this is one , one part of it .
at the coalergy , we see climate change as a serious danger for our business .
that &apos;s why we set it to the top line to spend a significant amount of money to get an advertising on the way to make the truth about coal .
in fact , coal is not dirty .
now , when you start to look at the idea that these cultures can create different realities , you can understand some of their extraordinary discoveries , like this plant here .
we think it &apos;s clean -- and it smells good .
so , don &apos;t worry about climate change .
let &apos;s do that quietly .
clean coal , you &apos;ve heard a lot about it .
so let &apos;s take a tour of this modern , clean coal-factory .
fantastic ! this machine is pretty loud .
but it &apos;s the sound of clean coal technology .
and yet , burning coal is one of the main reasons global warming is because of the remarkable clean coal technology that you see here , it changes everything .
look at it carefully , this is today &apos;s clean coal technology .
finally , the positive alternative mixes with our economic challenge and our challenge of national security .
all these people teach us that there are other ways of thinking , different ways of orienting on earth .
it &apos;s a photograph i took just last april in the northwest of the amazon .
america is in a crisis , the economy , the national security , the climate crisis .
the red thread that connects them all is our dependence on carbon based fuels like dirty coal and foreign oil .
but now there &apos;s a bold new solution to get us out of this miserable situation .
providing america with 100 percent clean electricity in the next 10 years .
a plan to bring america back to work , make us safer and help stop global warming .
finally , a solution that &apos;s big enough to solve our problems .
supply america is new . find out more .
this is the last one .
it &apos;s about a new supply of america .
one of the fastest ways to reduce our dependence on old , dirty fuels that make our world tick .
this is ayahuasca , which many of you have heard about , the strongest psychoactive preparate from the repertoire of the shaman .
the future is here . wind , sun and a new energy system .
new investments to create well-paid jobs .
supply america is new . it &apos;s time to accept reality .
there &apos;s an old african saying : &quot; if you want to be fast , go by yourself .
if you want to get far , go together . &quot;
we have to get a long way , very quickly .
thank you .
i want to start by asking you to think back to the time of your childhood when you were playing with building blocks .
as they realized how to reach out and grab the hands that are taking the blades and moving , they actually learned how to think and solve problems through understanding and changing spatial coherence .
the spatial thinking is closely connected to how we understand a lot of our environment .
as a computer scientist -- inspired by the kind of interaction with real objects -- along with my professional adviser patti and my colleague , jeevan kalanithi , i started to wonder : what if we could use computers that , instead of a mouse cursor , that moves like a digital fingertip on a flat surface ... what if we could intervene with both hands and take data physically and organize it in the way we want it ?
this question was so poignant that we decided to explore the answer and develop siftables .
in short , a siftable is an interactive computer the size of a cookie .
they can be moved by the hand , they can perceive each other , they can capture their movements , and they have a screen and a radio receiver .
more importantly , it &apos;s physical , so you can only move it like building blocks by reaching and reaching the hands .
and the siftables are an example of a new generation of tools to manipulate digital data .
and when these tools become more physical and become a conscious mind of their movements , recognizing each other and perceiving the intricacies of our process with them , then we can start exploring new and entertaining interactions .
i &apos;m going to start with some simple examples .
this siftable is configured for the video repertoire , and when i put it in a direction of tip , the video is played forward ; when i kick it in the other direction , it &apos;s going backwards .
and these interactive portraits are perceiving each other .
this plant contains some very strong tryptamins that are very similar to the serotonin , dimethyltryptamin 5 and methoxydithane tryptamin .
so when i put them side-by-side , it makes them interested .
if you &apos;re surrounded by one ader , you &apos;ll notice that , and you can get a little nervous .
and they also feel their movement and tension .
one interesting consequence of the interactions that we started to see was that we could apply everyday gestures to data , like shaking color the way you do it with fluids .
in this case , we &apos;ve configured three siftables as a pot of paint , and i can use them to pour color in the middle where they &apos;re mixed .
if we exaggerate it , we can give back a little bit .
there are also some nice opportunities in education like languages , math or logic games , where we give people the possibility of rapid trial and we want to see the results immediately .
here i am -- this is a fibonacci series that i &apos;m making with a simple equality program .
this is a game with words that &apos;s kind of a mixture of scrabble and boggle .
basically , you get every round on every siftable random letter , and as you try to make words , they get tested over a dictionary .
if you &apos;ve seen the yanoma , how you sniff this stuff , this substance that you &apos;re making from different species also contains methoxydimethane tamin .
then , after about 30 seconds , you get mixed again , and you have a new letter combination and you have new possibilities .
thank you .
these are some kids who came to the media lab on a trip , and i could get them to try it out , and i took a video of it .
they really loved it .
one interesting thing about these kinds of applications is that you don &apos;t have to give people a lot of instructions .
all you have to say is &quot; form words , &quot; and you know exactly what to do .
here are some people who test it .
this is our youngest beta-tester down there on the bottom right .
it turns out he just wanted to stack the siftables .
so for him , they were just building blocks .
sniff this powder is kind of like being shot out of a rifle , saturated by baroque paintings and landing on a sea of electricity .
this is an interactive animation .
we wanted to develop a learning tool for language learners .
this is felix .
he can bring new characters into the scene by lifting up the siftable from the table that shows this character .
here he &apos;s going to let the sun go .
the sun rises .
now he &apos;s going to bring a tractor into the scene .
the orange tractor .
good work ! yes !
by shaking the siftables and shaking them side-by-side , he can let the characters interact ...
there &apos;s no distortion of reality , but the resolution of reality .
... inventing his own story .
hello !
it &apos;s a story with an open end , and it can decide how it evolves .
flying cat .
the last example i have today to show it is a music sequencer for live performances that we &apos;ve recently developed and act in the siftables as a sound like leadership , bass and drums .
each one has four different variations ; you can choose which one you want to use .
and you can put these notes into the sequence that you can put in any pattern .
and you feed them by just holding a clay siftable to a sequence siftable .
there are effects that you can change live , like reverberation and filter .
you connect it to a certain tone , and then you tend to hire it .
in fact , i &apos;ve been discussing with my professor , richard evan shultes , the man who could not include the psychedelic ethia with the discovery of the magic mushrooms in mexico in the 30s . i said that you couldn &apos;t put these tryptamins as hallucinogen , because the moment you felt the impact , you &apos;re no longer there to experience a hallucination .
and then superior effects like speed and volume , which you apply to the whole sequence .
so let &apos;s see .
we &apos;re starting to put the leadership voice in two sequencing siftable and put it in a row , expand it and add it a little bit more to the voice .
now i &apos;m adding a bass .
now i &apos;m going to do some more drums on this .
and now i &apos;m connecting the filter with the drums so that i can control the effect live .
i can accelerate the whole sequence by tipping the pace in one direction or another .
and i &apos;m now connecting the filter to the bass for a little bit more expression .
i can change the sequence while it &apos;s going around .
so i don &apos;t have to plan it in advance , but i can improvise it ; i can expand it or shorter it during the course .
but the thing about tryptamins is that they can &apos;t be taken orally , because they are , of course , denatured by a human gut called monoamin-oxidase , denatured .
and finally , i can shut out the whole sequence by ending the volume siftable to the left .
thank you .
so as you can see , my excitement is to develop new human-computer interfaces that fit better to how our brains and bodies work .
and today i had time to show you some of this new design world and some of the ways that we &apos;re working on in our lab .
the idea that i want to leave you with is that we are at the threshold of this new generation of advertising for interaction with digital media , bringing information into our world that corresponds to our demands .
thank you .
i &apos;m looking forward to talking to all of you .
yes , good afternoon .
i &apos;m happy i &apos;m there .
yeah , so what &apos;s biohacking going to be ?
they can only be connected to some other chemicals that the mao denaturize .
i &apos;ve got to pick up a little bit about this , and that &apos;s biohacking is dealing with modern molecular biology .
i &apos;ve been studying molecular biology , and i &apos;ve been working on biohacking for a couple of years now , and i &apos;ve started that because i just wanted to know , and i wanted to do it for myself , which i &apos;ve learned theoretically in the study .
so , that was my primary motivation .
so it was a curiosity , and i wanted to get closer to the matter , like that .
i think that molecular biology , in general now , speaking in general , biotechnology , everything you count , synthetic biology and so on .
it &apos;s extremely important , now extremely important and much , much more important in the future .
there are things that are so controversial , like all these genetically engineered plants on the apples .
there are now craig venter in the united states who &apos;s trying to make biofuel , which is gasoline from algae .
now , there are also things that have come to life , which most people don &apos;t even know , for example , washing enzymes that allow us to wash at 40 degrees of laundry , are also genetically optimized enzymes .
and you can continue the list endlessly .
and this is an idea that , if you think about it , can only fulfill you with hope .
now the fascinating thing is that the betakarboline , which are in the liane , are mao inhibitors of exactly the kind that is necessary to potentially enable the tryptamins , so ask yourself .
and so , from the interest of this , in this technology , i just went on and on .
so , why hack ?
most people know this from the software industry .
computers hack , and then in the media , it &apos;s always going to be , yes , the hackers are going to break in somewhere and claw data and so on .
and that &apos;s kind of sad for the hacker scene , because that &apos;s not what it actually started out like , and what &apos;s really behind it .
in fact , the software hackers , in the &apos; 70s , &apos; 80s , started out with computer tinkering , and it also came out of the internet .
and it &apos;s about solving a problem with a playful , creative , original way .
and problem , that &apos;s not just a technical problem , it can also be a social problem , it can be just a problem of access , which is simplification of things , so any problem you &apos;re asking , and how can you do it differently or how can you do it better ?
and it just grew up with software , but there &apos;s also in the electronics area , there &apos;s also a whole tinkering scene that uses electronics circuits to do all kinds of things .
and now we &apos;re moving towards biology , and this is where i want to take this metaphor that comes from synthetic biology , that biology is actually an information science , because , you know , the d.n.a code is an abstract code , which is not quite the same as computers , because it &apos;s more dynamic , because it &apos;s matter , it &apos;s real matter , and it &apos;s not just cyber .
how can these people from a flora of 80,000 species of adstrining plants find these two morphologically unrelated plants that , when combined in this way , create a kind of biochemical version , so that the whole thing is larger than the sum of its parts ?
but it &apos;s also a code , and you can program it , and you can also hack it , like that , and i found it incredibly fascinating , and i just wanted to get much deeper with it .
that actually only took two thousand really shapes , these networks .
there &apos;s hackteria dot org , which is originally from switzerland , which is with europe and with cooperation in india based on the network , but now has members or active people all over the world .
this is a little bit of an artistic orientation , so there are a lot of artists and philosophers , and in collaboration with scientists , working on these technologies and asking questions and processing it creatively , there are museum exhibitions , and yes , all kinds of things .
but it &apos;s really all about finding such a locker access , having this kind of playful thing .
and then there &apos;s do-it-yourself dot org , d.i.bio .
this is from the united states , a network , which is actually more of a kind of forum where you &apos;re going to get up and discuss online .
they &apos;re a little bit more technical , and they &apos;re a little bit more enterprising , and then they &apos;re also asked , yes , applied questions .
and from these networks that have made the whole popular , there &apos;s been a scene that i want to portray for a moment .
here in the image on the upper left , you see biocurious , which is a hackerspace , so basically a kind of school , a private school , a nonprofit contract , where anyone can get there .
we use this great euphemism , trial and error , which turns out to be meaningless .
kids , old , all kinds of people go there to just sit down with it , they set up a lab , and they look at what you can do when these lab protocols look at .
here on the bottom left is a group in indonesia called house-of-natural fibers , which is , but they &apos;ve been around for quite a long time .
for a long time than these other two networks .
they &apos;re also involved in an artistic aspect of biological materials , and , yes , electronics builds , and they &apos;re combining it in a pretty abundant way .
a group of ankara , which i met a while ago , they have this is a student group who wanted to give the public more of what they learned in college , and they &apos;ve tried to explain to people what d.n.a is .
and i &apos;ve got a lecture up in copenhagen in the medical museum in combination with an exhibition on the top .
and that &apos;s , yes , that &apos;s mostly pretty young people , but the only thing that really brings you all together is this fascination of technology .
and what you can do with it , and you can just targeted the society to go and ask , &quot; okay , what do you know , what do you want to do , do you have an interest in bringing that in ? &quot;
so , o.k , to hack biology , you need some kind of material .
you need biological materials , of course , and you also need tools , and that &apos;s a lab .
but if you ask the indians , they say , &quot; the plant speaks to us . &quot;
or , in a way , what you normally understand under a laboratory is that these are sort of descended machines , extremely expensive , extremely distant , just for professionals , trained academics with ph.d. and so on .
and our approach was just to say , okay , that you don &apos;t actually have to do that .
that &apos;s actually not necessary , because every coffee machine has actually more sophisticated technology than most laboratories , that &apos;s really what it is .
and s o with this premise with this premise , for example , brian degger in england tried to put together a minimum abor , then took a steam pressure cookie , a heat plate , and , yes , so soup broods , and then grew bacteria .
so anyone who &apos;s been screwed up a soup that he &apos;s left for too long has done .
so i tried this in my lab at home to expand a little bit , and then i bought myself this second-hand equipment on ebay , and i did some d.n.a analysis , and i tried to do a father &apos;s test , so this is the / d.n.a fingerprinting , again , at home .
now this shouldn &apos;t be a joke at all , but .
so , down here in the picture , you see the lab , in leadership strikes , so there &apos;s a posted garage with all kinds of lab scaffolding that university has done , a group in paris that &apos;s been doing something , and it &apos;s pretty successful , and it &apos;s kind of interesting things , and i want to cut a project short .
and this is biocurious , the hackerspace i just mentioned , this kind of volkshock school , basically for molecular biology .
and yes , so you can see , it &apos;s relatively heterogeneous , so that &apos;s what people are doing on their own , all the way up to large organizations that are already doing the more formal in institutionalized form .
so , what does that mean ?
but always the approach that it should be simple and accessible .
the first project that we did as an international group , when we sort of became aware of ourselves , ok , it &apos;s now giving us a real scene , and we &apos;re online , and we know the people who are always chatting and so on .
and then it just came from the do-it-yourself bio website of the founders , and said , o.k , we have to really meet now , also meet real , and then organized two events , one in london , two thousand , and shortly after that in the united states , in san francisco .
and , it was also about , yes , who are we , what do we want to say , what do we want to share ?
and what are our values and what are our goals , our foundation ?
and then we worked out a code-of-conduct like this .
that was pretty intuitive , so everyone just expressed their wishes , his and what moves him , then .
that &apos;s where , in my opinion , a good code came in .
and then we have this one that &apos;s not compatible , but that &apos;s it , i think , it &apos;s been pretty good , and people are quite convinced that way .
and we even tried to bring that back to the academic world , but it kind of didn &apos;t get there .
this tribe , the cofan , has 17 variants on ayahuasca , which all of you recognize at a distance in the forest that appear for our eyes as a species .
so i think we &apos;re from the biohacker scene , in fact , a step further than the academic world .
yeah , what kind of projects are we doing now ?
one project i did with the hackteria network in switzerland itself was that we wanted to build a so-called optical trap or optical pink .
this is , if you focus a laser beam , on one in the room , then you can catch little particles in the air or in the liquid and then in this focus , so it &apos;s captured , you know , like a tractor beam , basically .
it really works , it &apos;s done in the academic setting , and then we thought , okay , we might get that , we took a webcam , we screwed it up , we turn the lens off , you &apos;ve got a microscope , we &apos;re going to zoom in about four hundred times .
you see that down there .
and then we screwed a d.v.d brenner apart , and we pulled out the laser , and then we tried to focus on this camera .
and that didn &apos;t work , unfortunately , but we &apos;ve learned a lot about it .
this is another project from the french group there in paris that worked , which is pretty cool .
and he &apos;s got a kind of a brain wave device , like e.e. or something like that , so he &apos;s been looking at neurobiology , his nickname is sam neurohack .
and then you ask them how they start their taxonomy , and they say , &quot; i thought you understand something about plants .
he then built this helmet there , and in the cooperation with the museum , that &apos;s what happened .
and then the visitors could go into the room , sit on this chair , sit down this helmet .
then their brainwaves were measured , and depending on what they thought or how they thought , they went to different lights in the room .
it was a pretty fortunate project .
another thing from the united states , which has to do with this father &apos;s history , is the p.c.r , which is the polymerase-chain response , complicated word .
so it &apos;s about copying genes , replicating , making fragments , so you can make them visible .
so now , if i do this , the profilers at the scene of the crime , go there , collect some hair samples , and then they do this technique , and then they can say , okay , this hair belongs to this person , like this .
and the machines that do this , they &apos;re pretty expensive , that you buy commercially , the cheapest ones go off at four thousand euros .
and that &apos;s not in the hobbyspace , but it &apos;s a really cool technology that can do a lot .
so this is just one application of many that you can do with it .
i mean , you know nothing at all ? &quot; and i said , &quot; no . &quot;
and they &apos;ve been sitting there for two bastlers , and they &apos;ve said , o.k , we &apos;re making this easier and cheaper , and then they &apos;ve just got it out of open source , so free hardware , electronics , and this device is assembled , and they &apos;re now the market drivers , and they &apos;re the cheapest providers of these devices in the world .
i think it &apos;s sort of six dollars or something like that .
but anyway , it &apos;s still not cheap now , but it &apos;s certainly in a context where it becomes much more available .
so i think it &apos;s a very yellow hack .
one project that i had recently started building was a gene gun .
gene-gun is , yes , like a kind of air pressure pistol that shoots about that far , two centimeters or so .
you put d.n.a on gold particles , and the gold particles then into this air pressure pistol , and then i shot it on onion , and then i made it light .
so the device that you see there didn &apos;t work .
but that &apos;s my prototype , but it &apos;s pretty much gone out , like , on a branch like this , the thing on it , put electronics on it and pressure on it , and that was too high , the thing was broken .
and then i took a juicer and put it on it .
so , it turns out that you take each of the 17 variants at the full moon and you sing them into a different scale .
a juicer , if you make the full power with water , has enough pressure , so i think it &apos;s about 40 to six .
and then you can accelerate the particles so much , and then they go into the onion .
and the commercial device costs about five thousand euros up or something like that , juicers like that about 50 .
so it doesn &apos;t have the same efficiency , but it &apos;s basically doable .
and so that is , at the moment , the core issue of the scene is to increase this availability of technology and also to increase the information and the understanding that more people can engage .
because , as i said in the beginning , it &apos;s an extremely important technology , and most people have relatively little idea , and no opportunity to form really well .
because if you just read about it , from secondary literature , that &apos;s not the same as if you &apos;ve done it yourself or seen it .
and i think technology is becoming increasingly important in our modern societies .
and if you want to be able to make meaningful decisions in society as an informed citizen and talk to you , you need the access to knowledge and to technology .
and you also have to do it and understand it in order to do it and understand it .
well , that doesn &apos;t give you a harvard ph.d. , but it &apos;s much more interesting than counting tribal .
and that then firms open knowledge and citizen science under the headwords .
so you &apos;re going to be able to deal with these scientific technologies as citizens .
and that &apos;s the core cause of biohackers .
these are the people who at least officially contributed on the website , d.i.y.bio-dot-org website .
that &apos;s a relatively remarkable number of people around the world .
and what &apos;s interesting is that they &apos;re also in southeast asia .
that &apos;s what i think they &apos;re there are fewer people in there than actually exist .
so i know some of you who didn &apos;t put themselves in .
and these are just the biohackers now , the individual people .
in part , with these hackerspaces , these places put together .
