you know , one of the great boxes of traveling , and one of the joys of ethnography is to live with the people who can remember the old days , who still feel their past in the wind , are still touching on the rain , flushed stones , tasting them in the bitter leaves of plants .
together , the myriad cultures of the world form a web of spiritual and cultural life that wraps the earth and is as important for the benefit of the earth as the biological life web that you know as a biosphere .
now , the problem -- the problem is that even those of us who have sympathy for the difficult condition of the infants , they think of them as orginially and colorful , but they sort of constrain to the past , while the real world , that means our world is progressing .
and that &apos;s in the very beginning .
as i said , two-thousandth , it just started .
and hackerspaces , you know , the computer hackerspaces , because the c-base in berlin was the first , ninety-hundred , ninety-five .
and this has now become a huge network of very good , yes , infrastructural centers that are represented all over the world .
and we hope , of course , that we &apos;re going to be able to spread in the same way , and then be very well connected , so that stop people getting involved .
and i would invite everyone to do it and try it themselves .
now , it &apos;s not that simple , but it &apos;s not impossible , if you have enough curiosity , and you put enough energy in there , you get a long way .
thank you for listening .
that &apos;s it .
yeah , hello .
so , the fact is that you will remember the 20th century , 300 years from now , not for your wars or your technical innovations , but rather than an era where we were , and the massive destruction of biological and cultural diversity on earth either actively supported or passively accepted , so the problem is not the change .
how do we actually work for people ?
this is a question that really moves me as a designer , but also in the field of research , usability and most of all things in the user experience .
it &apos;s about how you encounter people in interactive media , so that they can use these interactive media and create a most satisfying experience .
because i think that interactive media in us are addressing archaic , cognitive models , thinking patterns that have been programmed in our biological memory a very , very long time ago , and that we can just recreate them through interactive media .
and this is very amazing because you actually believe that this high technology that you &apos;re facing is actually bringing you into the future , but in fact , the future is right with us in our archaic roots .
now , what are archaic models ?
i used to write down four words , and i &apos;d like to explain them for a second .
in archaic cognitive models , these are the models that we &apos;ve been suitable in the pre-industrial times .
to these archaic models , we have basically a natural relationship to virtuality .
this is basically the first thing that sounds unusual .
all cultures have been involved in the dance with new possibilities of life .
but i &apos;m going to go back to that , and i &apos;m going to show you , in a moment , that you also have a natural relationship to virtuality .
the second thing is that since these archaic models , we &apos;ve been able to speak very , very visually , even though we &apos;re using a coded language today .
and the third area , which actually explains itself .
we all know that interactive media by definition is nonlinear , which includes the reasoning of linearity , and what of course tells us is that we now feel the linearity of normal .
the fourth thing is that the story for us is a place of information .
now , what about the virtuality that is actually the most natural thing in the world .
i want to prove this to you .
how many doors does the house you live in ?
we &apos;re not going to be able to answer them spontaneously , but this is what &apos;s going to happen , and it &apos;s just happening right now .
they go through this house in the mind , in which they live , and look at how many doors there are .
and the problem is not technology itself .
and that &apos;s what they do .
they &apos;re virtualizing reality , and they &apos;re not computers .
fantastic , right ?
and we &apos;re struggling with the media campus , for example , to show the virtual reality in our v.r. lab , and we can actually do that all the time .
and that ability to virtualize the reality that virtual people had to have in the pre-industrial times , because they didn &apos;t have anything .
they didn &apos;t have books .
or they didn &apos;t have photoolitography .
they didn &apos;t have mass media .
the only thing they had was their head .
and in that mind , the memory took place .
the sioux indians didn &apos;t listen to sioux less than they were bent and arrow tasks when the americans stopped being americans when they were horse and horse cars .
in this head , knowledge was called out , and with these virtual images , the imagination , they were just passed on knowledge .
and that &apos;s why it &apos;s so strongly rooted in us that we can deal with virtuality so well .
the interesting thing about this is , if i can take a little trip .
yeah , that &apos;s it .
what &apos;s interesting about this is that , at the time , the human being was also media producers and medium itself .
now , if you think about a piece further .
what are media today ?
then you &apos;ll notice that there &apos;s been a change .
but i &apos;ll come back to that in a minute .
the basic tool of information mediation has been since any story .
not change and technology threatens the integrity of the ethnosphere . it &apos;s power . the ugly face of rule .
shame , priests , so-called knowledge guards , were deployed to keep knowledge in stories .
and even today , we &apos;re still very , very strong on stories .
the author of the story animal , jonathan gotchall , as a result , we still combine a thousand hours a year with the recipe of stories .
that means for a child who has spent most of his life with the recipe of stories up until the age of generosity .
now we think our love of stories depends on us as a child on our parents &apos; lap .
no , no , far missing .
this goes way further back into the pre-industrial cultures .
but for me , in the realm of interactive media , what &apos;s so impressive about it is that we have anchored in our biological memory , the ability to think nonlinear .
i brought an example from the north american tribe of nootka-indians .
and life lived in the coastal region of british columbia .
and as you can see , this is a very island area , and you had to sort of navigate from island to island to get food .
and they did this with what &apos;s called lead-land maps .
you may know that if you &apos;re a little bit interested in it , from the australian people .
they have similar principles .
they have not used lead-land maps , but they &apos;ve used the kind of genetically called songlines , or trauma fades .
and what &apos;s interesting about this is that the navigation and the topography of regions could be represented over songs .
where the language was subordered by the subordered rang .
that is , you navigated through sound and through rhythm .
and these sounds and this rhythm have shown the geology , the topography of a region , and that has , of course , allowed you to defragment these songs and move differently and so on to the left , to the right and also to move back to the output .
why don &apos;t we sing to get from the top of a to b ?
or if we go to the mountains of tibet , where i recently study a lot , you &apos;ll see the ugly face of political dominance .
anyway , not to navigate .
what happened there ?
this is what happened with the machine age .
we used to move in what we call the avian age .
what happened is the machine age , and what happened is the book , and it happened is the photoolitography .
and that &apos;s what happened is that we have shifted the responsibility for our memories and the production of our individual memories to external media .
in the book and in the picture .
so , unfortunately , we have a piece of time to virtualize god .
virtuality has suddenly become alien to us , and has nothing to do with reality .
bruce brown , a well-known design researcher at brighton university , has gone so far as to say that this mass media , he means the book and the picture , not the television , the internet , and so on , what we now call the mass media today , that this mass media of our memories have fossilized , and our ability to virtualize .
you know , the genocide , the physical extinction of people is generally convicted , but the ethnocid , the destruction of people &apos;s lifestyle , is not only convicted , but generally celebrated as part of a developmental strategy .
let &apos;s make a little intermediate .
from the avian age to the machine age .
what does influence our thinking and our memory ?
then these are abandoned influences of pre-industrial cultures .
and they &apos;ve been more and more overstated over the centuries by the influences of the machine age .
so , instead of remembering ourselves individually , we have standardized , widespread , widespread patterns of memories that we can hang our personal memories to .
we &apos;re no longer producing ourselves .
we have an abstract language that &apos;s abstract .
we &apos;re not imagining the thing in pictures anymore , but we &apos;re coding it to you our language .
we &apos;ve been used to things happening linear .
and you can &apos;t understand the suffering of tibetan , if you haven &apos;t experienced it at the bottom level .
and we &apos;ve accepted linearity as a law , and there are only exceptions like the non-linearity .
what we &apos;ve stayed with is the story story .
still , we &apos;re very , very arrested to the story as information mediation .
the question is , what &apos;s next ?
we had the vocabulary age , we had the machine age , and we now described what &apos;s called the cyberage .
it sounds very spacey , and it sounds very much like science fiction , i know .
but these concepts of cyber-age , which bring us these opportunities back to rediscover our capabilities .
it &apos;s about virtuality , it &apos;s about non-linearity , it &apos;s about storytelling .
i want to explain this a little bit for a second .
there are technical concepts like augmented reality , which is the augmented reality .
you can think of this cultural life web as an ethnosphere , and ethnosphere can be defined as the total sum of all thoughts and dreams , myths of ideas , inspiration and intuitions that have been created by human imagination since the beginning of consciousness .
i once traveled to lhasa with a young colleague of 6,000 miles of chengdu in west china overseas through southeast tibet , and only when i came to lhasa , i saw the face behind the statistics that you hear about : 6,000 holy monuments that were turned into rubble and ashes , 1.2 million people who were murdered by the kades during the cultural revolution .
so if you look at google glass , for example , then this is a concept of what makes us recombine the virtual world with the real world , which is our affinity to virtualization , which is to find the virtual thing to feel like a normal , natural thing , is being addressed again .
another example is what &apos;s called virtual reality .
as crazy as this may sound in the context of my talk , we &apos;re physically moving in non-existential , virtual worlds , just after the holodeck &apos;s model .
and another example is the ambitious , intelligent systems .
these are spaces that can respond to a human being intelligent .
all of this requires the ability to accept our basic ability to accept virtuality as a real habitat .
i graduated , and i hope the video works , a very , very beautiful project , which is the bachelor &apos;s work of michael burk , ann-kathrin krence , joris klause and jan-moritz garbage garbage .
and the two last ones are also here today .
maybe you can stand up for a second , so you can pause with the two of them on the project .
and i brought this project back as an example of how it &apos;s addressed to these archaic , cognitive models .
this young man &apos;s father was identified as the tag of the panchen lama .
the whole thing is a game , i have to say .
which is , of course , extremely opposite to the story , and it &apos;s a computer game .
and when i say computer games , you &apos;re very likely to have in mind that some people are sitting around in front of some console , or that they &apos;re playing with some console in their hands .
anyway , they do it in there .
this is a game for the outside .
and that &apos;s meant to explore the outside world , which is that i rediscover the real world .
and this game connects the virtual world , which is the data that we produce , to the real world .
i apologize that i have to cut so much .
you can explain that in a much better way , there &apos;s a lot more behind it .
and that is that i &apos;m discovering a city by looking at which places have been positively or negatively twittered .
that meant that he was instantly killed during the chinese invasion .
and so i get a very different view of the city , a very different kind of impression , which is i see negative and positive areas of a city , and i get a very different , virtual map of a very real city .
and we can now look at that .
ah , what you can see here , sorry , is another little explanation of what you &apos;re about to see .
of course , this virtual world lives in the walls of our cities , it &apos;s clear .
and with a flashlight , we can make these virtual worlds visible .
so , i &apos;d like to summarize my talk , and that is , in the sense that the properties and the skills that we &apos;ve acquired from the vocabulary age , and that has gone a little bit of a shattered in the machine age , that these can be activated with what we call the cyber age , and that in this way , we can get back to our roots in this way about complex , technological , new products , not in the future , but actually come back to us back to our roots .
thank you .
yeah , i &apos;m very excited to be with you .
i &apos;ve just been asked if this sack is a talking sack , and it &apos;s going to be mine instead of speaking .
he &apos;s not going to do that .
his uncle flew into the diaspora with her holiness that brought people to nepal .
i &apos;m also going to resolve what &apos;s in there .
but so far , i &apos;m just a little bit curious .
yes , children are naturally curious or should be curious , designers too .
i &apos;m a designer of house , so , of course , i &apos;m also involved in the subject of curiosity , and how does curiosity change the way we think , and why do we maybe lose curiosity and have to repel it , and so on .
this is a whole range of things that you &apos;re looking at , besides the actual existence as a designer .
when professors get curious , they often get put in the research semester like this .
and that &apos;s what i &apos;ve had in the last half a year .
a research semester on natural user interface .
now you &apos;re going to ask yourself , why do all the designers begin to engage in such natural , archaic forms of communication , interaction and so on ?
and i &apos;m just holding one of these little devices up , because things should be more intuitive , increasingly natural , user-friendly , and you have to look at what &apos;s actually natural for us humans , what &apos;s user-friendly or intuitive .
his mother was locked in as a punishment for -- to be wealthy for crime .
and before the background , i was in the field of natural user interface , so the next generation in the human computer , in which the human computer is dealing with how our tools , or how the computer is changing from the computer to the digital assistant .
so i &apos;ve been thinking about this , when is it natural or intuitive ?
maybe you have to look back at it again .
why does this happen at all ?
so if we look at the evolution of our society , for a moment , here we are now moving from the third to the fourth generation of society or society .
so from modern to computer society .
every society is shaped by a primary medium .
in the beginning , the tribal society through language .
that is , you &apos;ve found yourself , by talking a common language , you &apos;ve been able to communicate with each other , you &apos;ve moved to the same cave or in other areas , you &apos;ve created cities or villages , and you &apos;ve created tribal society .
but the primary medium was language , something very natural , something very living .
he was smuggled into jail at the age of two to hide under her rock , because she couldn &apos;t live without him .
you also had to learn , so no small child can talk about nature , but we learn it sukessive and proportionally , of course .
that was then triggered by ancient society and the first form of abstraction .
this was a huge outcry at the time , because , of course , you start manifest the living language in the form of writing , which is what fluid and alive is , i start and i &apos;m going to master it in stone , and i &apos;m going to manipulate it .
and of course , depending on how i do it , and when i do it , it &apos;s a very different coverage than when there &apos;s a living kind of thing .
but then sukessive just moved this script as a primary medium , got in the suit .
then came the next generation that we actually live in today primarily .
this is just the printed and printed script with gutenberg and others .
at the time , it was also a monkey , where adel , klerus and others said , you &apos;re actually insane , when people start reading , they want to talk to you afterwards , and that &apos;s , of course , totally fatal .
and now we &apos;re going to get to the next generation , and the exciting thing is that a generation change is just every few hundred years , and we &apos;re really in this phenomenal phase right now , that we &apos;re participating in this .
of course , this completely confuses us , because we see , on the one hand , the new media , socil social media , facebook and so on .
the sister who did this brave , was brought into an education camp .
with total transparency , what the new thinking is , what bangs on old thinking , don &apos;t tell you that in the lasagne horse meat and not a beef is or other phenomena , which is , i want to just scrap this out , and i want to do this .
and these two worlds are actually banging together , thinking new and old .
the exciting thing is , if you look at this , this new society , this computer society , rejects very many mechanisms , principles and archaic paradigms from the tribal society .
now , not anymore at the local level , but at the global level .
we &apos;ve understood that the weather is global .
that the subject of ecology is a global issue .
not , if i think locally ecological here , and the neighbor thinks less ecological , it doesn &apos;t work .
that means that the local village has actually become a global village with the same principles , of course , possible , intuitively , but also the total transparency .
as you knew in the village then , who has something with whom , and when , this is what &apos;s happening today , through these mobile ending devices on a global scale .
whether it &apos;s that we know globally accumulating and accumulating faster and faster and better .
one day , she stepped out of a armband of maos , and for that transmission , she had to go to a heavy labor camp for seven years .
just as it used to happen in the village .
in the background , i &apos;ve just been looking at this , what does it mean to us , what else , of course , what is it that we may have lost , but what is also instinctive for us , so what makes the difference ?
because a lot of times people come , they can &apos;t make it usable so anybody can handle it .
so you have to deal with it , which means that , and not just change it , it &apos;s different , but it &apos;s supposed to be better .
and of course , when is a little intuitive , and how can i have an impact on it as a designer , and just design things like this , that they &apos;re usable , so they &apos;re capable of intuitive , because then they &apos;re fun , and they &apos;re easy to use .
you go to work , even during the study , with the subject of perception and perceptual psychology .
and that &apos;s what , of course , is where you start and you look and you say , okay , now i &apos;m just looking into the inner self .
and what &apos;s it like to be in there ?
so how do we work when we look in there ?
and what does , of course , mean , intuitively and how do our channels work , and how does cognitive processing work ?
the suffering of tibetan can be intolerable , but the redemption of people &apos;s minds is something unforgettable .
because steve jobs once said you need to get dig deeper to understand how it works .
so you really have to look in detail , if i want to make something usable or intuitive , which means that at the core .
and you can see that you have a , our seven senses , most people think we &apos;ve only got five , now even seven , there &apos;s certainly the next , aged sense , and as an extension of ourselves , it &apos;s also coming back .
and to see how do we process information , how do we take information ?
just to say , what is information ?
information is every difference that makes a difference .
a lot of people use the word , but they don &apos;t even know what it means , in detail .
but i have to understand at the core , in nature , when does information become information , when will data and information again , so that i know how to make things possible intuitively or naturally handable afterwards .
and of course , how design affects perception .
we see this , when i make things , i can make them confusing like on the right , where i don &apos;t know what &apos;s salt and pepper , or i can sort of intuitively design them by showing things .
and in the end , we &apos;re really in front of a choice : do we want to live in a monochromatic world of monotonies , or in a polychromatic world of diversity ?
so much more natural , in a vessel , but i kind of see where salt and pepper is in there .
and when i tell someone , give me salt or pepper , they &apos;ll be thinking about where &apos;s in there .
and on the left-hand side , i hope that no sugar is in there , the salt is just about to give .
but also , our perception of ourselves , how do they deceive us ?
for example , this perception in context .
the right circle looks bigger than the small one , even though that &apos;s not the case , but they &apos;re just the same size , and yet our perception changes depending on what context we put things in .
does anybody know what that is ?
come on .
pattern recognition should still work .
there &apos;s a lot of glasses going on there .
the ethnosphere is the great legacy of humanity .
margaret mead , the great anthropologist , before she died , said it &apos;s her greatest fear that as we move towards a thread , shape-shifting , generic world view , we wouldn &apos;t just see the entire range of human imagination reduced to a tight way of thinking , but that one day we wake up out of a dream and forgot that there were other possibilities .
so it &apos;s the n circle .
a second circle already begins to correlate or associate certain similarity .
and when i &apos;m going to put another halboval in there , all of a sudden we don &apos;t see just one more unit , which is circle , circle , and yet we see a unit , we don &apos;t see more three , a circle , a circle , a circle , another .
it &apos;s called gesture law , or gesture psychology , which also affects us in perception .
it &apos;s important for the designers , they usually have this in the first semester , the great design laws .
shape-based laws of nearby , shape-law of continuity and so on .
often in the third , forget again .
but this is an essential component , if you want to design things in a way that &apos;s very intuitive .
the next phenomenon , which is also very interesting in vision .
sounds very banal , but it &apos;s very exciting when you get closer to it .
and it &apos;s humbling to think that our species may exist for 600,000 years .
so we have the eyes in the front , and now you think we see from the front to the back .
that &apos;s wrong .
you first see from the back to the front .
that is , they promote an assumption forward that they see something that they recognize , unprecedented circle .
that is , we &apos;re just going to test our vision before we see it , bringing it back into our seheater , to say , okay .
i &apos;ve got cognitive feedback , you &apos;ve proposed what you want to see .
so that &apos;s there , that &apos;s what comes back .
and then it goes back to the front , because the back doesn &apos;t look at the front , and now it really looks back at you again , and i &apos;m sure if what you see is what you want to see .
and then it goes back to the back , and then it &apos;s actually seen .
so a very , very exciting process of how certain things happen and what a million-second sector these things happen .
the neolithic revolution that brought us agriculture , and at that moment we were signing the cult of the seed , which replaced the poetry of the shame through the prose of priesthood and created hierarchy , specialization and overshooting -- just 10,000 years ago .
i don &apos;t know who of you know this picture is .
there &apos;s exactly the same thing that i just described .
now , everybody from this pattern is trying to see something .
i don &apos;t know who recognizes what .
does anybody see anything ?
a dalmatiner , exactly .
once i saw that , that &apos;s a dalmatiner in there , you know that .
you &apos;ll never forget it anymore , because i &apos;ll show you where the dalmatina is .
now you see the dalmatiner .
and on and on , now you see him .
the modern industrial world as we know it is hardly 300 years old .
that is , i &apos;ve actually spoiled you now that you can &apos;t see a pattern in it , but i &apos;ve been considering it within a very short period of time to see this dog again and again in this missed image .
and this is this projection of vision , feedback , vision .
now , i know , and now i &apos;m progressing forward , that i see the dalmatina .
i see the dalmatiner .
so , really , really exciting processes that are going to be in this , yes , gray is not really , but it &apos;s just going to be going to be here in this rosane mass .
does anybody know what three seconds is ?
long , yes .
that &apos;s our present .
so , it &apos;s also interesting to know as designers .
if i know something takes three seconds to sort of get out of the presence to the past , i can also bridge a very good waiting time , where i &apos;m going to get somebody to work with three seconds .
now , this shallow story doesn &apos;t tell me that we have all the answers to the challenges that we face in the next millennia .
he has to process that as the present .
then it goes into the past , and so i can bridge very elegantly waiting times , for example , on the computer , if i know this phenomenon .
what does 50-milliseconds take ?
yeah , milliseconds .
it &apos;s also a very exciting phenomenon .
this is the time period that you fall in love with .
that means , look , if you know that now , look at who you &apos;re looking at for a long time , because i don &apos;t take a gun for , which can happen right now .
and six milliseconds , also a very exciting phenomenon .
that &apos;s the time period of most perceptions that we have .
that is , this first impression is happening at a quick speed , as we perceive things .
when we ask these myriad world cultures about the meaning of being human , they respond with 10,000 different voices .
and as we see things that we &apos;re looking at , and how we sort of protect ourselves against our environment , so that we can think about that in a way .
of course , the designers are not just dealing with the subject of perceptions and neural processing or cognitive sergonomy , but primarily with the theme of human-object relations .
so how does a human being deal with certain things .
there &apos;s a product linguistic , practical functions , so formalaesthetic aspects or formalathetic aspects .
there &apos;s a sign functions , where i know exactly where i have to grasp .
but there are also symbolic functions , why does someone spend on this little day where there &apos;s hardly anything in it , so horrendous money , even though it &apos;s not that practical ?
there we are , rather , at the symbolic level , at the level of meaning that we &apos;re looking at as a designer , of course .
back to my actual theme of natural user interface and the subject , which is obviously what &apos;s behind , is usability .
usability always means , how can i achieve a certain goal quickly , or how can a user achieve a target in a certain context of use effectively , efficiently and satisbly .
that &apos;s how it says the norm .
and in this song , we &apos;re going to rediscover the possibility of being what we are : people with full consciousness , who are aware of the importance that all people and gardens have to be able to flourish a space , and there are great moments of optimism .
how can i make something that &apos;s possible to use ?
can i serve this directly , or do i need a manual , or do i need a corresponding training for it .
and less usable or usable is it .
that i &apos;m just doing this differently and more beautiful doesn &apos;t mean that it &apos;s better to handle .
you also have to understand that .
and then , in part , if you look at the software that we just saw , you &apos;ll understand why ninety-nine percent of our software today is not very intuitive or unpredictable , which is the i-pad in many areas or i-phone , even though it &apos;s more intuitive than classic software .
it &apos;s not only intuitive usability since apple has been a fundamental economic factor , a fundamental factor of success , if i want to make technological devices available to people .
why ?
because usually , through this new kind of usability , which is the natural user ínterfaces , we &apos;re on average for five times faster .
you have to think of it in a way that if you do something of the classic softrware , it takes you five hours and with this new kind of natural software just one hour .
here &apos;s a photograph i took at the northern end of the baffin islands when i went to the narwhal hunt with inuits , and this man , olaya , told me a wonderful story of his grandfather .
that doesn &apos;t mean that you &apos;re probably allowed to go home for four hours , but you &apos;re going to have to go to your employer , or anyone , to come up with the four hours .
but i want to say that , of course , for us , it &apos;s a corresponding increase in performance , it &apos;s also achieving certain things .
so when we go back to software , this is the first command line interfaces , which were very abstract , where it took months to deal with these systems .
and then the next ones that have been working on &quot; nem neural model or mental model like the software called eergonoma , &quot; which is , you would have an idea of something , the metaphor of a desktop to make the computer usable .
so , not more zeros and ones or cryptic code , but a metaphor .
it made it much more usable , of course , but it &apos;s much better .
the next generation of graphic user interface is much more working with behavior .
so , as a designer , i &apos;m much more likely to form behavior than that looks .
this is also a paradigm shift .
and all of a sudden , i think that this looks increasingly unimportant to success , right now the usability becomes an app .
the canadian government didn &apos;t always do very well with the inuit , and during the 50th year , the establishment of our rule , they were forced to move in settlements .
and if i take a step further into this natural user interfaces , where i , by voice , by touch , by mouse and cursor , have to control things , i &apos;m even faster , and i &apos;m even more immediate .
but that also leads me to the point where , when do things get more intuitive ?
when you get more intuitive , and then i have to punish my little friend here and see , what does that mean , from the point of view of cognition , when is it really intuitive ?
and that &apos;s always an intuitive thing for us humans when i have to think very little about it .
so it doesn &apos;t seem that he wants to think , but it &apos;s pretty easy to do .
the less i think about it , the more intuitive it is .
and what does that mean to the designer ?
that means , if we look at the fact that we can transfer existing action models from one to another , for example , the metaphor , i can use it as a designer .
that is , i can just put an intuitive human action model on a software and make the software much more usable .
now , of course , the question is , what is the most intuitive action scheme of humans , and now i &apos;ve already measured .
the grandfather of this old man refused .
this is what &apos;s called the osit model .
this is what each of us uses , and osit is an acronym , and it stands for oriental , selective , informed , transaction .
that &apos;s what each of you does all the time , but it makes it unconscious and sort of intuitive or partly intuitive .
the model is already exploded in the womb and is intercultural , so it works around the world at young and old , and it &apos;s used by us all the time , without most of us knowing that this model is there .
osit osit itself is about 50 to seven thousand of us , depending on activity , so in sleep , you realized that it &apos;s actually less likely to be punished than it is on day .
i can now orient this mental action model , select , inform , transfer transaction to an interaction system .
and through this kind of transmission , similar to the metaphor of the desktop , now not a metaphor of a physical object , but a metaphor of an action pattern , an action pattern .
and this is at a higher grail of utility than the transmission of a classic metaphor , which is the desktop .
and if i translate that now , for example , in which i &apos;m going to orient as an overview , select as a choice , inform in which case , it &apos;s going to be big on me , i can look at it in detail , and yes , transaction is , i can throw it somewhere or send somebody or shop and so on .
then i can transmit the whole thing .
it &apos;s the symbol of all of what we are and what we &apos;re capable of as an astonishingly wiser species .
the family that was afraid of his life took all the guns and all the tools .
i &apos;m going to try this through an example .
i mean , everybody &apos;s eaten cake .
overview : now i &apos;m kind of interacting with the object , can zoom out again , zoom in .
i get the whole overview , i can now filter on this and say , just show me all the chocolate thing , for example .
and all of a sudden , you have an interface , which is much more intuitive and much more natural .
because that i can reach things like the piece , touch things , and they come up to me , it &apos;s much more natural than when it comes to hierarchically organized websites or other mechanisms , they can make these things available .
imagination is more important than knowledge , and with that phrase , i &apos;d also like to end up with giving you a and reference , and designers have to think differently to come up with new solutions , and in that sense , thank you very much for your attention and please .
i want to help you to a very specific aspect of curiosity .
the first one , when you grow up as a child , as a baby , is that you take care of the kinds of divorces you have , right ? and depending on whether your parents allowed you to play more or less in the pottery , the more , you know , your curiosity is obviously blown up .
and the curiosity can &apos;t learn .
now you have to know that the inuit is not a fear of the cold . they used it for their advantage .
so all of you who are here and are curious , in fact , are people who have a property that you can &apos;t learn .
i &apos;m going to talk about , basically , putting this whole environmental discussion in the world , 40 years of club-of-rome , in quality .
and there &apos;s a central point here .
and it depends on phosphorus .
give pee a chance .
every day , they give + they give about two grams of phosphorus , and every day they have to take two grams of phosphorus .
otherwise they can &apos;t have teeth .
they can &apos;t store energy .
they can &apos;t have bone .
we could only glide as amorphous mollusks through the world &apos;s ocean .
the tracks of their sledges were originally made from fish that was wrapped in caribbean skin .
in fact , if we don &apos;t take a phosphorus and give it away .
what &apos;s astonishing is that we &apos;re dealing with something that would actually be self-understanding , but is not like that .
because everyone &apos;s talking about energy , but nobody &apos;s talking about the phosphorus problem .
the phosphorus problem is much more critical .
we depend on two countries .
we &apos;ve only phosphorus for two years , and already , through the phosphorus mining around the world , we have a lot more uranium in the environment than we have in all nuclear facilities .
in the last 20 years alone , five thousand tons of uranium has been distributed in our fields in germany .
and that &apos;s what we &apos;re recording .
it makes leukemia in children .
and we think we would protect the environment if we were a little less harmful .
the man &apos;s grandfather didn &apos;t fear the arctic night or the blowing storm .
so , for example , shake the environment , drive less cars .
shake the environment , make less waste .
shake the environment , consume less energy .
but that &apos;s not a protection .
that &apos;s the way i would say , shake your child , just three times instead of five .
that &apos;s just a little less destruction .
if we think from the weights to the bathroom , our whole earth is going to be a cemetery in the past or later .
it &apos;s about thinking about how to weigh .
and the most important thing is to look at the ground , first of all .
in the ground , over six percent of the carbon is stored .
he would swallow out , put his pants down from sea fur and defeat into his hand , and when the feces began to freeze , he would form them into the form of a knife .
at the moment , we &apos;re building corn and losing between 11 and 30 kilograms of 30 tons per hectare , or the square meter .
that means we &apos;re losing about five thousand times more in the ground than we &apos;re being reformed .
we can , of course , look at the problem of waste .
and it &apos;s all packaging or content .
in openbach , for example , in the household , 20 percent of the garbage is now wind .
and as we get older , the wind gets bigger .
that &apos;s kind of all of you in the pre-wind phase .
yeah ?
a baby needs about six thousand wind .
we could reduce that by 10 percent , of course , but what does that do ?
he sprayed saliva on the sides of the fecali-knife , and when it was completely frozen , he amazed a dog with it .
this is balanced in china in a second .
this is completely trivial .
so the question is , how do we deal with these winds ?
here &apos;s a proof , by the way , that men are not pigs .
i want to tell you .
because the phosphorus is given in the pigs over the solid ingredients of excrement .
people on the urine .
yeah .
so men can &apos;t be pigs with that .
because it &apos;s evidence , right ?
he contains the dog and improvised a dish , took the dog &apos;s skeleton and improvised a sledge , relaxed another dog , and escaped over the ice sheets with the fecali-knife on the belt .
traditionally , we think in environmental discussion , we &apos;re too many in the world .
and if you tell the people who are willing to tell the people that they are going to be better , if you tell them they &apos;re not there , they &apos;re going to be refining and hostile .
and so someone like al gore , one of our great heroes , there &apos;s nothing more important than stabilizing the human population .
in israel , you say , if you save a human life , you save the earth .
here it says , the more you kill , the better .
yeah .
the first question is , are we really too many ?
if you look at the ants , the weight of the ants on earth , the ants weigh about four times more than we humans .
i could take termites as well , but in the united states , no one might have termited in this far , even though they &apos;re vegetarians .
that means that ants weigh much more than we do .
so you can do something out of nothing .
and because they &apos;re physically working a lot harder than us , and because they &apos;re only living for three to six months , they &apos;re in their weight , a little thirty billion people in energy use .
that means we &apos;re not too many , we &apos;re too stupid , right ?
and where you see how far we are away from what we really wanted to achieve and could , and how sad we are , that we are at all on earth , you can see that , for example , openbach has a program , up to 20 , you want to be climaneutral , right ?
you can only be climaneutral if you don &apos;t exist , right ?
the only chance .
have you ever seen a climate-neutral tree ?
yeah ?
one ?
that means all of our intelligence means that we want to be dumb than trees , right ?
yeah ?
and in many ways , this is a symbol of the resistance of the inuit and all the infants in the world .
no tree is carbon neutral .
luckily not , yes ?
there &apos;s no overpopulation problem with trees .
there are still six billion trees in the amazon alone .
have you ever heard of this as some of the overpopulation problems of trees ?
that means that all of our intelligence means that we want to be stupid as trees .
and where you see , even in something like demeter , the most controversial bio-agriculture , it doesn &apos;t allow our own metabolism to go back .
every year , we lose three million tons of phosphorus that would really have to go back in circles .
and that &apos;s too many of us .
just about it .
the canadian government gave back the inuit in april of 1999 the full control over an area bigger than california and texas combined .
that means we feel so guilty about the earth that we say . there &apos;s no bio-farming , no bioland , no natural establishment progression , and as they all say , it allows our own excrement to go back .
isn &apos;t that sad ?
that &apos;s too many of us .
it &apos;s safe to be less harmful in terms of oil use .
but where are we useful ?
we &apos;re trying to minimize our ecological footprint , but it &apos;s about having a big footprint that &apos;s useful .
we want to be good for society , we want to be good for the economy , but when it comes to the environment , it &apos;s the highest , not to be there , right ?
nullemissions , right ?
you can only have nullemissions if you &apos;re not there .
even if they were shooting themselves now , they would have emissions .
and just as the biosphere has been highly discarded , this has happened with the ethnosphere -- just at even greater speed .
it &apos;s our new home country , and it &apos;s called nunavut .
so you can &apos;t solve this at all .
we can do it differently .
we can regain our nutrients .
we do agriculture in brazil where we regain the nutrients .
we can get right back in this way , nutrients in agriculture .
we do this in china , for example , where we take the waste directly .
in china , a dummy pot is still a honeybee today , so to speak , right ?
and in our western world , we were always too stupid to bring back our nutrients .
that means the whole western civilization-history is that the city has always taken over , but never given back to the farmers .
and by doing so , cities had to grow more and more , because the farmers had to go to the cities , and the cities had to keep getting their nutrients away .
it &apos;s an independent area . they control all the minerals .
that &apos;s why all the western kingdoms are always expanded until they haven &apos;t done the infrastructure , and then they &apos;re imploded .
yeah ?
in china , it was different .
you &apos;ve done civilization over five thousand years , because you &apos;ve always been able to bring the nutrients back .
even today , if you &apos;re invited to eat , in china , you &apos;re expecting for the food to stay until you pick up the toilet .
because it &apos;s unfriendly to go and take the nutrients .
they were invited to eat for food , not for nutrient theft .
that is , you can see on the internet how to regain the nutrients .
what &apos;s really nice about this is , if you do this , you make agriculture , you make biogas , you know , on a hectare country with five thousand people in favelas , you can make a farmer about a thousand-hundred dollars , and you can wait with it , chicken and pigs and pig and vegetables and fish .
and the great thing about this is that the crime rate in the favelas is over ninety percent .
an amazing example , like a nation , a state that can seek and achieve repetition with its residents .
so we don &apos;t have to control people , to be very little bad .
we can support them to be good .
this is , of course , high-tech agriculture , but the plants carry themselves .
the byproduct is clean water .
and they &apos;re designed like this by the design that a farmer can just manage them .
that means that the crime goes back .
and none of these facilities , we &apos;ve now built over 100 to 50 in the last 20 years , none of these facilities have ever been saboted .
you could just throw in a liter of aldaughters so easily , and then the facility would be ruined over years .
it &apos;s not happening .
that means we don &apos;t have to control people , to be very little bad .
and finally , i think it &apos;s pretty obvious , at least for those of us who have traveled to these distant goals of the earth to realize that they &apos;re not at all removed .
we can support them to be good .
that means we need to get phosphorus back .
and by the way , if you want to do something about it , write down , in germany , the best fit of all the enlightenment facilities is in frankfurt .
unfortunately , they &apos;re not in openbach , but maybe they can help the france a little bit .
because the frankly facility could best regain the phosphorus .
and it has to go back .
we see that phosphorus is really critical .
and we see that it &apos;s going through .
we have now spent over three years in holland .
the dutch government has explained that they will be the first country in the world to reclaim phosphorus .
they are the countries of someone &apos;s home .
but we need that in total .
you know , there are two countries that control almost seven percent of the world &apos;s phosphorus resources .
opec is a bunch of orphanages .
that &apos;s six and a half countries that control 40 percent of the oil supplies .
and we &apos;re going to be able to replace the oil with other energy carriers .
but you can &apos;t replace the phosphorus .
that &apos;s not about making the existing a little less bad , but it &apos;s about doing something right .
and most of all , it &apos;s asking what the right thing is .
that is , it &apos;s about efficiency , not about efficiency .
in holland , of course , it &apos;s easier to understand , because in holland , the country is built on flowers .
they represent parts of the human imagination that go back in the past time , and for all of us , the dreams of these children , like the dreams of our own children , become part of the geography of hope .
yeah ?
imagine , for example , if your wife is sad , if you &apos;ve annoyed her , and you come with 50 roses .
completely inefficient .
but it &apos;s really , really effective , right ?
or take a lip pen .
a woman in germany eats about six comma three kilograms in her life .
and that &apos;s it .
that &apos;s not exactly right , scientifically , because we don &apos;t know how much is being kissed away .
but a lip pen , even in this illumination , i can tell you , is completely inefficient , but very effective , right ?
one of the things that &apos;s beautiful in life is not efficient .
what we &apos;re trying to do at national geographic is we believe that politicians never achieve anything .
that &apos;s why not resource efficiency , but efficiency .
asking , what &apos;s the right thing to do ?
not to burn the curriculum a little bit better , and recharge it , and lose all the materials in the combustion , but first to ask , how do you close circuit ?
imagine mozart efficient .
yeah ?
if i invite you to dinner and say , yes , there &apos;s a tablet with open taste and a glass of water .
wonderful , &apos; ne ?
that &apos;s efficient .
everything that &apos;s beautiful in life is not efficient .
if you fall in love with somebody , efficient ?
we believe that polemics -- we believe that polemics is not persuasive , but we believe that storytelling can change the world , and so we &apos;re probably the best institution for storytelling in the world . our website gets 35 million hits every month .
yeah ?
that is , everything that counts in life is not about saving , avoiding .
the whole environmental discussion .
we tell people , oh yeah , you don &apos;t have an environmental awareness in the south .
no , the throwing away is exactly the right thing , right ?
in every place you throw away , from , yes , you create life opportunities again .
but the wrong things .
if you throw away the wrong things , you have a waste problem .
in how we think north .
there &apos;s every footprint that &apos;s disadvantaged .
156 nations send our tv channel .
when they walk , yes , every footprint destroys the floor .
because the ground is going to die off the mosses , and the wind , and the water is going to wash away the ground .
but if you &apos;re in italy , every footprint means that the water remains in the meadow longer .
so , it &apos;s about creating a big footprint that becomes a wetlands .
not guilt management .
we say sustainability in germany .
yeah ?
but if i ask you , how do you do that with your wife ?
what do you say ?
sustainable .
our magazines are read by millions .
and then i say , heartfelt , right ?
that &apos;s the minimum .
so , don &apos;t save , get rid , get out .
every waste is nutrient .
and it &apos;s a lust , when you see in italy , people in the high bow are throwing out coke can out of the car .
because , you know , it &apos;s a fun thing to do .
it &apos;s a form of refour-behavior , right ?
you can show , i was there .
but with the right design , here we go .
for example , we &apos;ve developed an ice cream package , which is at room temperature liquid .
no biologist , for example , would argue that 50 percent or more of all species are just about to extinct , because it &apos;s just not true . and yet , this -- the most apocalyptic scenario in the field of biodiversity -- is hardly what &apos;s known as the most optimistic case in the area of cultural diversity .
and we &apos;re doing a series of trips to the ethnosphere where we take our audience to places of such cultural wonders that they are blinded by the seen , and hopefully , one by one , they will take the central revelation of anthropology : that this world has deserved to exist in a variety of ways , that we can find a way of life in a really multicultural pluralistic world where the wisdom of all people can contribute to our common well-being .
they can throw them away , where they go and stand .
in two hours , it &apos;s expanding everywhere .
and it contains seeds of rare plants , so they contribute through the throwaway to biodiversity .
that is , we &apos;re useful , not less harmful .
so there are two cycles .
not everything , of course , is supposed to be composable .
a tv set or a washing machine that you just use , and they don &apos;t use it .
just the things that are shrinking , like shoe soldiers , like brakes , like cars , they have to be so that they go into biological systems .
the things that are just being used go into technical systems .
but today we &apos;re just talking about the biological systems .
thank you .
yeah ?
for example , the sneaker , right ?
very direct advertising , not for the company , puma per se , but for helping this company make these products successful .
because we don &apos;t make things free anymore .
yeah ?
so if i invite you to eat and say , this is free of chicken , it doesn &apos;t help you anything .
no , we find out what &apos;s in there .
positive .
so it &apos;s not like detox .
not toxic in it .
what i &apos;m going to show you first , as quickly as possible , is the basic work , a new technology that we gave microsoft as part of an exception just a year ago , which is seadragon , and it &apos;s an environment where you can either be locally or removed with huge amounts of visual data .
it &apos;s all in it that &apos;s useful .
these are the first shoes that you can put the kavalierstart on the pedestrian light , and the rubber in biological circles , right ?
all of them are composable .
and of course , when we do it , we can do it for obesity , for nike , for hennes and mauritz and all the textile industry .
and that &apos;s half of all the sewage problems in the world that are caused by the textile industry .
that &apos;s why they help with it , ask people what they &apos;re doing .
hey , puma , are you really serious ?
because they &apos;ve changed the board twice now .
and i &apos;m not so sure if they really remain here .
so , help me a little bit about this .
we see many , many gigabytes of digital photographs here that you can seamlessly and continue to get , swirl , rearrange in any way .
but it can be done .
yeah .
that &apos;s what &apos;s just been shown .
here we go .
now , what we can do is we can do things in a way that , if they &apos;re abandoned , if they &apos;re broken , they can be in biological circles .
there &apos;s the same technical cycle .
there &apos;s a direct back system for this .
this is the first ecological backpack , actually , that &apos;s made to go back to the cycle .
again , in any store , you can get things back .
when you get to that , right ?
and it doesn &apos;t matter how much information we look at , how big these collections are , or how big the images are .
do you remember the windle again ?
if you have the waste right now .
and everywhere , these winds are all around , almost .
in the countries where people are coming from .
it &apos;s on the front of the deponia , but it &apos;s also in the landscape , right ?
if we change the plastics so that it can go into biological systems , if we change the water memory , inside , that they can actually go back to cellulosic base , then they can plant hundreds of trees with a baby in israel or in tunisia .
yeah ?
even if you take these winds , you break them down , you sterilize them , and you take the powder to plant trees with them .
so the baby is carbon positive for all of life , from the beginning .
so , we don &apos;t need to be climaneutral , we can be climate positive .
most of you are digital photographs of a camera , but this one , for example , is a scan of the library of congress , and it &apos;s in an area of 300 megaps .
it &apos;s kind of a behavioral poop print .
yeah , so to speak .
yeah ?
we can do that .
we can reinvent everything .
i started an institute to do this .
there are a lot of people working there now , and they can all get involved .
there &apos;s an extra club to that , cradle to cradle , where everyone can participate .
so not saving more , reducing , reducing , not debt management , but intelligent waste .
does that make you curious ?
it doesn &apos;t matter , because the only thing that can limit the performance of a system like this is the number of pixels on your screen in every moment , and it also has a very flexible architecture .
thank you .
the interpretation &apos;s work .
music as a language .
in the description of my talk , it &apos;s written that , as an interpreter , i understand myself as a translator , in english language , i understand .
interpreters are translators of written notes in clinical music .
that , as a translator , you don &apos;t just have to translate the word into a different language , but you also have to understand the deeper sense of the words and the vocabulary slope in order to make a meaningful translation , anyone who has to do with foreign languages .
already , translating from german into english , it can require more knowledge , even when you &apos;re talking about poetry or even poetry .
but it &apos;s very strange for layman , what we do with our music language .
as an interpreter of a piece of music , i have just the written notes first .
you think that the composer wrote everything in the notes that he came up with .
this is a whole book , an example of non-image data .
in fact , the notes are very vague and inaccurate .
these notes are about as accurate or inaccurate as a verbal , even though very seemingly penile , description of a landscape .
because in this verbal description of landscape , the fragrance of flowers is not to smell , the degree of the green is simply to not hear the saddles of the wind , not to feel .
that is , the interpreter has to translate these unprecedented node language into another , which is audible , concrete , nonverbal music language .
today i want to translate to a verbal language what i otherwise translate to music , which is interpreting , again , into a verbal language .
so basically , a translation of translation .
so i prefer to do this in german , because if i had to translate it into english again , it would be equally significant to me to translate the translation of translation .
so the music , for me , works a bit like the spoken language .
the notified notes have the function of the letters of a script .
so it &apos;s not enough to just learn to read notes and press the keys in the piano or the right place on a violin string .
this is bleak house of dickens . every column is a chapter .
because that would be just the letters that you &apos;ve learned to draw .
the sense of letters is only when you can see the language .
so you need to learn the music language for at least as long as the spoken language .
there &apos;s also a graduation , whether you learn it for the use of the hence , you can only understand it passively , or you can talk actively , to the musical native speaker .
the interpreter &apos;s work begins in a similar way to a theater director .
first of all , after you &apos;ve chosen a piece of play , because you &apos;re excited about it , you &apos;re first exploring the backgrounds of composition .
you collect information about the piece in the secondary literature .
you read in the letters , journals , notes , or whether there are words , thoughts of composers themselves .
you study the works that he composed before and after .
you compare it .
to prove that it &apos;s really a text , and it &apos;s not a picture , we can do something like this to really show that this is a real representation of texts and not a picture .
the motivations of writing it .
how and what did he feel ?
how were his circumstances , like the society and politics ?
i &apos;m interested in all this .
you think about that time by , for example , looking at contemporary images or reading literature .
but over time , as an interpreter , you have a rich knowledge to play the composer that you &apos;re playing more and more , and it makes you easier to think and feel in him .
the composer becomes more and more of the friend that you live with .
his cause to write the piece becomes more and more of my personal cause to play it .
now , because the notes are anything but an accurate record of the composer &apos;s song , but only a scaffold , i &apos;m now applying this scaffold to restore it with meaning and meaning .
i then say , in my own words , what could be written between this framework ?
and the key indicator of this is the extinction of languages .
maybe this is an artificial way of reading an e-book .
i play explaining what these sounds might have to mean .
now , for me and for the composer , and what you might mean for him today .
every sound , every phrase , gets a sense of it , because i feel it myself , because it comes out of my own right now .
it has to be true for me in this room and now , otherwise i can &apos;t convince my audience that this is my cause .
it &apos;s a very happy concert over and over again , if i &apos;m allowed to have the experience , the piece that i &apos;ve been working in advance for as long as i &apos;ve been reinventing .
how to experience a happy new day over and over again , even though with the same rituals of life , breakfast , go to work , i do the same thing over and over again .
i got older a day , changing seasons , my pulse goes slower at night than in the morning , in a concert hall , it takes longer for the sound to come back home than at home .
i notice breathing the audience , consciously or unconsciously .
all of this affects me and all of this also affects my experience with composition .
and what &apos;s wonderful is , when i &apos;m standing on stage with a duo partner , and we have the same wavelength .
i wouldn &apos;t recommend it .
and then the same thing happens in a good , reasonable conversation .
you bring a new idea into it , and so you can answer that with a reaction .
it &apos;s exciting , because then things don &apos;t happen that we &apos;ve tried and what you can &apos;t sample .
it &apos;s a lot of fun making music in this way , and you as the audience have then experienced how music communicates alive .
so each concert is a different concert .
i &apos;m never going to play the way i do this moment .
i can &apos;t play the way i do in 20 years today .
and i &apos;m going to have more life experience than i am today , and therefore on my palette of music sound , i &apos;m going to have even more color nuances , emotions and emotions than i am today .
sure , i will have thrown out some pots of color , but i &apos;ll get some new ones .
have a nice example of this .
this is a more realistic case . this is a copy of the guardian .
it was on a piano course for music students at my beloved old teacher , professor jürgen ude , a famous beethoven specialist , concert pianist and slow professor of music college here in stuttgart .
unfortunately , i was too young , so he was already emerged when i finally started studying .
but i was very lucky to meet him very early , at the age of three , and so i was in his school class at the time .
i was seven at the time when i went back to one of his courses and played the last of the four ballads of chopin , a late work .
he asked me what was the introduction of this ballad for me .
this is such a commodity part .
and in my youth , i said , expectation .
and he was cheating , and he was like , you know ?
that must be the age difference .
because for me , it means memory .
every big picture is the beginning of a section .
he was already over 60s .
well , with seventh 10 , you have dreams , but no significant memories .
i &apos;m playing the play every few years , and it &apos;s changed for me , although not a single note has changed .
every time it &apos;s exciting , i keep reading something new .
an example of this from a very different area . monet has painted the lily .
it &apos;s always the same garden , but at different times of day , in different light .
he translated the sea eroses in a different way , as he saw it , as you did at that moment on him .
his personal impressions of the sea eroses .
the x-ray interpretation of a piece is comparable to that .
now , i &apos;m also older than chopin at the age of two and a half , when he wrote the piece .
and that really gives you the pleasure and the good experience of reading a real paperwork of a magazine or a newspaper , which is a kind of medium with multiple scales .
he only lived for 30 years .
and it &apos;s important to me to keep looking into the notes , even though i think i can memorize them .
to keep twins , right with the composer .
because the notes are the only connection directly to him .
most of all , when he died .
now , how do you start talking about the language of music ?
i said yes , it takes about as long as it takes for spoken language .
often the music class is that you learn to read the notes .
you &apos;re basically learning to read before you just speak a word .
you learn to find the notes on the instrument .
we also did something on the corner of this particular copy of the guardian .
so if all of the fingers are in time and right like it is in the notes , then sound comes out that sound like music .
when that happens , the student gets up the next hard piece .
interpretation is hardly spoken in the beginning class .
well , there &apos;s presto in the front , which is a quick piece .
lento , slowly .
loud and loud , f and b , etc .
most of you know that .
but even if you implement those attacks , it still remains a little bit technical .
and it &apos;s still not an interpretation .
i wonder .
we designed a false display with very high resolution , which is much higher than a normal display , and we added additional content .
i wonder that you often forget something very basic .
and that is , to make music on the instrument , to do your own musical doing , and to feel already there before .
that &apos;s singing .
a child who didn &apos;t learn to sing , because the parents didn &apos;t pretend , it won &apos;t do it by themselves .
it &apos;s like learning the language .
it &apos;s necessary to have its own experiences and ideas of music , and then through another possibility , which is to make it sound about an instrument .
so people who have never singed have never felt immediately with their own body , what it &apos;s like to form a sound .
designing a phrase with its own breath .
because the musical instrument is the extension of our bodies .
our vocal chords to sing , our hands and feet to dance .
if you want to see the functions of this car , you can see them here .
so the hammer heads in the piano are the sequel of my fingers .
the melody comes from the healthy and the rhythm of the dance .
the permanent narrative with music today is not promoting .
you don &apos;t need to make music yourself when you get bored .
no longer need to whistle or sing a song .
every one of your own music is being made up when you &apos;re constantly being sucked with music from the outside .
sure , there are some of you who say yes , but what do you do if i can &apos;t sing ?
the question i ask you can &apos;t sing , a , because you think you can &apos;t sing ?
or b , because they didn &apos;t learn to sing ?
in both of these , it &apos;s not too late to find out if they can &apos;t , or to learn how to use these little muscles that hire the vocal cords , right .
or other models , or even technical specifications .
because you can train that .
or c , because they were complained that they were undivable .
so i ask , how skilled was this diagnosis ?
did you get a second or third opinion , as you say today beautifully ?
or d , you don &apos;t like music , and therefore you want to have nix .
what i would regret , though , is that music is a beautiful , communal thing .
but maybe you can also reconcile them .
well , you can see , in all cases , no one has to be a pointless candidate .
but also , don &apos;t say , i don &apos;t understand the classical music .
i can &apos;t tell if it &apos;s good or bad .
and this really picks up these ideas to eliminate these constraints for the available place on the screen .
i say that , but i &apos;m sure you can tell if you like it or not .
because i don &apos;t think somebody says , i don &apos;t know if i like it , because i can &apos;t cook .
so , they don &apos;t get rid of food , just because they can &apos;t cook .
so you don &apos;t have to get rid of classical music , because you don &apos;t play an instrument .
listen consciously and tell you whether you like it or not .
whether the music is too clever to you or too sweet .
tell you what you &apos;re feeling .
over time , you get claims , and you want a little bit more spices there , or even taste out fine differences .
now , why do i demand my audience to listen to it actively ?
because the music is a language , and a language is a language to communicate .
when each of you was born in this room , 6,000 languages were spoken on earth .
we hope that that doesn &apos;t mean pop-ups and other nonsense anymore -- that shouldn &apos;t be necessary .
a piece of art you never look at has no force to work .
the food that was cooked by a chef , or a chef , has to be eaten and not just looked at or traded .
so please listen when a music is played .
it &apos;s not just a nice soundscape .
if in an environment where adults make active music , or at least listen to active music , a child grows up , it &apos;s very easy for a music teacher to ask , what color does your flower have ?
can you play them in blue now ?
and the child plays , after a memorial , instead of a red now , a blue flower .
and this sounds very different from before .
so that was the very first beginning of a musical expression .
so the first step to an interpretation .
of course , the mapping is one of the really obvious applications for a technology like this .
and what happens when you play a piece today that was originally written a hundred , two hundred years ago , or three hundred years ago ?
meanwhile , the instruments have been evolving .
there was no piano , right now , as an instrument .
it was just not invented yet .
i think the stream would have been thrilled if he had the sounds of today &apos;s modern piano .
i can now bring the notions that the stream has had to sound on the modern wing , which a baroque cembalo cannot do .
you also know about beethoven that he heard more than he had become deaf .
today , a modern orchestra is able to play anything that an orchestra has rejected as an unplayable at the time .
so the composers depend on us are interpreted to reinvent the pieces .
so you can hear what you &apos;ve only imagined in the mind .
and i really don &apos;t want to spend a lot of time here , except to say that we &apos;re also going to contribute to this area .
and also , what you would think today in the mind .
or what i &apos;m going to do today , because what you might have thought .
thank you .
do you know what &apos;s envy ?
have you ever been jewish ?
and how did that feel ?
shit .
i have a friend who drives a passerati .
and then when i come , with my little v , w piesel , and i get it wrong , that feeling comes up .
i &apos;m shooting through my head .
but these are all roads in the u.s. .
i say , oops , what do you need to do that big car ?
this is already losing half of his value in the first year .
and at all , you work much less than i do .
why do i have to afford little cars like this ?
and then i can think of it immediately , which is unfair .
it &apos;s against justice .
and as i say the word justice , this unpleasant feeling is gone .
our organism has invented a great way to make such uncomfortable feelings as neid just make it disappear .
you can also try this with words like revenge or revenues or something like that .
i want to explain something to you today with this mechanism or something that &apos;s unconsciously familiar to you .
overseas on the top of the walled image of nasa .
the mechanism comes from the lie .
but don &apos;t think about the lie , as you may have heard when people say , no one has the intention to build a wall .
and then you get stones to get them to see .
on a lie like this , you can see that the liar itself doesn &apos;t believe what he says .
it &apos;s very easy to check that it &apos;s very different in mind .
he just deceives you and not himself .
no , the lie i &apos;m talking about , which has to do with deceiving yourself .
they need this lie to sustain a lie of life to sustain a self-deception .
they can make them less easy , yes , review , or collapse .
they need time .
now let &apos;s get something else out .
from that time , an anecdote is speaking that you may know .
the spanish painter pablo picasso once portrayed a woman .
this woman then complained that portrait wouldn &apos;t look like her .
picasso responds , just wait .
it gets more and more similar to you .
at this point , and when you laugh , you realize how important this lie is , and how much time you need to know something that artists can tell us very well .
because artists have a disrupted relationship to lie .
the artist shares something to you , and most of all , this lady , what she doesn &apos;t see when she just looks in the mirror .
the artist shares something to you in such a portrait that you &apos;re only going to be familiar with when you look at this piece of art over and over again .
and then this unpleasant feeling disappears , and it wouldn &apos;t look like you , and it &apos;s getting more and more similar to you .
this is actually live on the internet now . you can check it out .
here they have this mechanism where we can use the lie as a great invention to stabilize our livelihoods .
and it &apos;s not just in art , it &apos;s in folk , it &apos;s in mythology , it &apos;s coming back in stories .
you may know this idea of the lady who looked in the mirror every morning and asked him , who is the most beautiful thing in the country ?
one day , this mirror says , yes , there &apos;s a more beautiful one .
behind the seven mountains and so on .
and you also know how much hostility from this true outcome , even the mirror can &apos;t lie , from this true outcome .
but we should just be familiar with the fact that you can &apos;t tell a woman that there &apos;s a more beautiful one somewhere else .
here &apos;s what we need to do under politically correctness , to bring it back .
we need this lie at this point that keeps us in deception without which we can &apos;t live .
we have , not only in art , in folk poetry , but in science , such great lies .
this is a project called photosynth that really connects two different technologies together .
and there &apos;s this story of the worchester &apos;s bishop .
she heard about this book by charles darwin , the origin of species and the ancestry of man .
that the human being should come from the monkey , and , yes , there would be a common ancestor between humans and monkeys .
and then she ran up to her husband , and she said , well , that &apos;s not true what charles wrote .
the human being is supposed to come from the monkey or have a common ancestor .
no , no , it can &apos;t .
and if it &apos;s true , we have to prevent people from knowing it .
why do we have to prevent people from knowing something about it when it &apos;s true ?
because we can &apos;t live without that lifespan .
because we have this self-deception , this feeling of being great , descent of the highest creatures , not of such a natural level , of something as unpredictable as an organism that exists to a rock , and other things , that &apos;s unsustainable for us .
one is seadragon , and the other is a very good research on computer vision , which is from noah snavely , a university student at washington , under the counseling of steve seitz at uw .
so , we can &apos;t do these things at all .
we need to prevent people from knowing things , especially when they &apos;re true .
so you can see how slowly this mechanism unfolds , and how the traces it leaves behind , which lead to something else but in this great picture of ourselves , i want to give you another story .
it &apos;s a particularly beautiful story , i mean .
my wife told me .
she came from school one day , she &apos;s a teacher , and she told me about a student .
an autistic student .
she likes him especially because he has a propensity for sincerity .
and she asked him , what are your hobbies ?
and he says , well , i &apos;m at the fire department .
and rick szeliski was done by microsoft research , a very good collaboration .
and because i &apos;m in the fire department , i &apos;m interested in pyroengineering things .
yes , you feel it when you &apos;re healer at this point . there &apos;s something wrong there .
i told my wife , whenever a human being in a moral justification used the word because we should try to replace it by the word .
do that one time , and then you experience the sentence .
even though i &apos;m at the fire department , i &apos;m interested in pyroengineering things .
you feel that this is the actual truth behind the outcome .
this is a little bub that doesn &apos;t really care about fireflies .
he &apos;s interested in firemen .
but there are no clubs that we can look around for , where you learn how to make fire .
there &apos;s only the second best , the fire department .
now , a language is not just the totality of the vocabulary or a series of grammar locations .
so this is live on the internet . it &apos;s driven by seadragon .
and he signed up .
and overwhelmingly , you don &apos;t tell your teacher that you like to put fires somewhere and enjoy when the fire comes up afterwards .
no , it just looks a lot better when we show that we are in charge of eliminating the dangers that others create when they lay fire .
here you have this little mechanism .
this evidence that in the inside of the bub , he knew that he was actually related to the fire , but he can &apos;t say it loud .
here you have this censorship between the unconscious and the conscious one that jumps up immediately without you being able to do something about it , and the things that you know are very different , designed to sound much better for you and others .
and that &apos;s just how we create these words that we use over and over again in the language of the politically correct speech .
in fact , we know that something else is the case .
but we know that when we talk about this , the social relations are very sensitive .
we can &apos;t just do that .
you can see this when we create these kinds of views where we can penetrate through images and have this experience of multi-fold resolution .
it &apos;s impossible to present things like this in a society that &apos;s supposed to work .
so i want to show you what we found in my institute .
so what logic , this deception , this self-deception , the willingness , a different reality than the one that we actually know in the unconscious , is that it &apos;s valid to spread outside .
so i want to present to you two , maybe three examples .
the first example predicts what many of you know and some of you estimate very few of you don &apos;t need at all .
i mean the soul .
what is the soul ?
the soul is something like that , says something like leibniz .
it &apos;s something that &apos;s not stops , material nature .
and if you have people who are in favor of the solid belief that they have a soul , or you can also say , who believe that they &apos;ve been brought from the soul to life , it &apos;s kind of like the soul is such a mental framework about them , not out of matter , they &apos;re just made of meat and blood , something stone , to the earth that &apos;s forbidding , devastating , unimportant , yes dead .
but the spatial order of the images is actually important here .
and now , from this soul , you think that somehow in this cloudy nature , in this funny nature , anima , it &apos;s called in latin , the air smoke , it &apos;s present .
and when that air smoke poisons over people , it &apos;s filled with dignity , with spirit , with nature that can only live , with soul .
and then he can walk away .
that &apos;s the idea of how the soul works .
so she &apos;s supposed to go from the outside to the human .
so we should perceive them as something that is really supposed to be present for our lives .
and if you have this premise in front of you , you understand the logic with which we experience this happiness of improving our world through a lie .
because now you can apply a three-sentence .
three sentences you still know from school .
now this is a three-sentence that describes a logic .
the computer visions algorithms have captured these pictures together so that they could correspond to the real room where these images were all taken near the grassi lakes in the canadian rockies , and you can see the elements of stabilized slides or panoramic imaging , and these things were all spatially related .
this is the hardest part of my talk , by the way .
here you need some logic , but also the willingness to lie .
and that is to lie in a way that you can use this logic just wrong .
in this three-sentence , three sentences are occurring .
the first sentence is , claim , there &apos;s no soul .
so the second sentence is , if sound is right , it doesn &apos;t have a soul .
now there &apos;s a third sentence .
i was particularly highlighting it here .
a third sentence that immediately appears in people who have a strong feeling for a soul .
they say , &quot; who has no soul , he &apos;s dead , and he can &apos;t say anything . &quot;
i don &apos;t know if i have time to show you other environments .
and here you feel it .
here &apos;s the logic in this , yes , in this deceptive talk .
you see it immediately .
the first two sentences , they &apos;re logically correct .
because i can claim everything .
the logic doesn &apos;t say anything about reality .
i can say the kanzler is a man .
and if i &apos;m right , the channel is a man .
if i &apos;m not right , the channel is not a man .
the logic doesn &apos;t tell you what &apos;s going on .
there are those that are much more spatial .
i can say anything .
but the key thing is , if i &apos;m right , it &apos;s true .
so when klaus says , there &apos;s no soul .
second , if he &apos;s right , he doesn &apos;t have a soul .
these things are logically correct .
and now our disappointing consciousness immediately feels that you can do something about it .
it depends on a third sentence that has nothing to do with the first two sentences and pretends to be the opposite of the first sentence already proven and assumed .
because , in fact , we &apos;d have to prove whether or not there &apos;s the soul .
but with this logic that it just uses , that two sentences are logically correct , and a third , which looks like it has something to do with it , so we can save our livelihoods .
so , we pretend that it &apos;s actually impossible without being able to live a soul .
i &apos;d like to show you just one of the original data sets of noah , and this is from an early prototype of photosynth that we &apos;ve been working on for the first time in the summer to show you what i think is really the point behind this technology , photosynths technology , and this is not necessarily so obvious when you look at the environments that we have on the website .
and we &apos;re very happy about this .
we can continue to do these things in different examples .
in the present , for example , we have a very modern example , which fills the newspapers over and over again .
so , you have to present to another philosophical issue , a permanent philosophy , a philosophy permanent .
this has to do with the fact that we go back to the fourth century .
there was a scholar named johannes buridanus , and after that , the buridanian esel is named .
the buridanian esel is an esel made of pure nature .
it doesn &apos;t have that soul .
this is a natural thing .
and if you place the exact same thing between two big hairs of hairs , it starves .
we had to worry about the lawyers and so on .
because he doesn &apos;t know what haystack to go to first .
so it &apos;s right in the middle .
that &apos;s how natural things are presented .
the same size forces with counter-intuitive signs dissolve each other .
there &apos;s nothing going on at all .
it &apos;s only when you take another example , so if she makes the haystack bigger , he doesn &apos;t need any reason and nothing .
automatically , he &apos;s walking to the right thought .
so , if you have this idea that you &apos;re sort of driven in nature , you &apos;re determined by the larger pile that immediately attract you , you have to quickly feel that there has to be something like a free will .
and if we &apos;re already here in frankfurt at the main , i remember the max planck institute for brain research .
there &apos;s a scholar called wolf singer , and sometimes you say , wolf singer says , there is no freedom of will .
this is a reconstruction of the cathedame lady , who came out of the computer with images of flickr , just put notre dame in flickr , and they &apos;re going to get images of men in t-shirts and on the university site , and so on . each of these orange cups represents an image that was discovered as a model .
now we can form the second sentence again , and we can say , if wolf singer is right , he has no freedom of will .
these sentences are absolutely logical and correct .
and what we can now read in the daily newspaper almost every day is what you find in this third sentence .
it looks something like this , if you don &apos;t have freedom of will , you can &apos;t be drawn to account for your actions and your claims , and therefore it &apos;s unpredictable .
again , you have it again .
in fact , you &apos;d have to prove that there &apos;s something like freedom of will .
but the logic of deception allows us to pretend that the first sentence is wrong , as if , of course , you have to take the opposite without proof .
and now you can just , if you want to do anything yourself , if you want to test anything yourself , and especially if you want to make people happy , practice that courage to lie .
practice this , for example , once you meet a person who you can tell , there are no predictors .
and please don &apos;t use the german word for prediction , which is prophet .
so these are all flickr images , and they &apos;re all in this way in relation to each other .
you can &apos;t call that , that would be a little bit politically incorrect .
you know , there &apos;s no prediction .
immediately , they &apos;re going to experience one for which there are these predictors , of course , that you can &apos;t prove .
and they already have a problem .
because while you &apos;re busy making the point that you can &apos;t prove that there are no predictors , the man is very happy .
he &apos;s very happy about it because he deceived it .
because he has led them to a file that he doesn &apos;t stop himself on .
because , in fact , this person is not interested in evidence .
he &apos;s just interested in holding himself free from the need to prove that there are predictors .
so , in the way that shifting the burden of evidence , you &apos;re experiencing the brilliance of lying .
a language is expression of the human mind .
and we can navigate in this very simple way .
and once again , if you have that opportunity to feel that three-sentence in other people , you do , because you will make others happy if you don &apos;t remember your self-lie that way .
thank you for your attention .
yeah , good afternoon .
i allowed myself to ask lilly if i could mention them .
she &apos;s one of the organizers here of this great event , and she asked me if i wanted to give a talk here and give my idea to you .
i have to tell you honestly , you got it , it was hard for me to talk about my idea at the beginning .
and i might want to introduce my island project to try and introduce you .
but it &apos;s , of course , the sum of a lot of ideas .
i probably belong to the two nice girls , and i &apos;m probably part of the generation that &apos;s been ordering for this bad oil image , because i &apos;ve already started studying machine construction in carlsruh , technical college , i think it &apos;s called , kit .
and i was struck by berlin in the mid-80s , because i wanted to make renewable energy , and that &apos;s not what it was like in karlshe .
you know , i &apos;ve never believed that i &apos;m going to work at microsoft .
there was the core research facility called leopoldshafen .
they were all called kfa , which was jewish at the time called kfa .
these are called project carriers today .
because a good engineer has either built great cars or nuclear power plants .
but it &apos;s kind of a doofes like &apos; n solar pendulum that comes out of a hundred watts from the square meter , which was a toy .
and in berlin , there was a crazy engineering collective .
i &apos;m grateful to the premium columa man that he rehabilitated the word again , because after the masonry , you couldn &apos;t use the word , because everything on the left was bad .
but it wasn &apos;t like that in the &apos; 80s .
it just happened to be that there were self-administered alternative operations , and one of them was sitting in cross-country in the countryside , where you thought the evil was .
where the terrorism was , but that was called the fur tronics and made wind and solar energy , and i started in the mid-80s .
i &apos;m very grateful for the reception here .
and yes , a lot of what &apos;s been said today is very touching me , because many , many beautiful expressions were in the process that i &apos;ve lived through .
i worked in the collective for 11 years , which was grassroots .
we were 20 people .
when one said no , the vetoprinzip , that completely crashed you , and i doubled for 10 years if i was a great engineering student , maybe i really wasted a miserable thing to do , because all my father &apos;s colleagues have always talked to him , you &apos;ve thrown the money out to the window in your kid .
it &apos;s looking at the weakness .
and this was really , really bitter , and you get into this phase , and it just came up with this picture , where i was asking for 10 years , a thousand d marrow , which was , at the time , basic wage , uncertainty in the collective , of course , whether this really should be the great thing .
and then i went to six and a half , and then we got together with friends , i became a co-founder of the solon , who then became one of the largest cell manufacturers in the world with the spin-off q-cells .
a huge success story , but also , of course , we have the problem of a growing company , and then we have two thousand , a small group , decided that we &apos;re going to start small again and go back and dedicate ourselves to the next topic of the future , and that , i think , is , again , crazy , and that &apos;s what we think , again , is that people say , what &apos;s the hell , that &apos;s not going to happen , we &apos;re talking about storage .
and i brought you a project that i want to introduce you to .
and the title of the talk was , yes , how do you get a hundred percent renewable .
and i guess you can see that these are many different kinds of cameras : everything is in the process , from the mobile phone camera to professional slrs , a pretty large number of them that have all been put together in this environment .
and we just started asking a relatively simplistic story , where could you use a memory to make sense of today ?
on this island , this is the island of graciosa on the azors .
yeah , that &apos;s the data .
there are four and a half thousand people living there .
they have today a 15 percent renewable energy share .
and the question is , why don &apos;t you have any more ?
it just doesn &apos;t work technologically .
when you add more wind power to each other , the system starts to fail .
that &apos;s what i always tell the politicians when they &apos;re in berlin adlershard , when they &apos;re in our facility .
they always say , why ?
and if possible , i &apos;ll find some of the strange ones .
we already have 20 percent in germany .
it can &apos;t be a problem .
but if it &apos;s not true , we have seven percent in europe , and our web is physically the european .
if we had 20 percent in europe , we would have the same problems that people have on this island have .
the question was simple , calculated that was two thousand , started the first contacts with the island , but just run through it .
how big a battery would have to be , in fact , to get an island like this to 20 , 30 , 40 , 50 , maybe even seven percent renewable .
and yes , i &apos;m going to go another slide .
the conventional system all over the world looks like this .
by the way , about a hundred gigawatts of electricity is added on the same basis in the world .
that &apos;s the power of a hundred nuclear power plants , because it &apos;s very fast everywhere .
many of them are covered by faces and so on .
the world &apos;s energy hunger , which is happening , is deleted with this , because you don &apos;t need permission .
this is fast .
you put the box like this .
and then it usually looks like this .
in the process , three of these are always waiting , two of them are always waiting .
yeah , this is what you see at the bottom is the burden .
we also got very precise data .
and the wind power plant , or the solar plant , or whatever it is , is usually a back-up system , or a system , which can eat only in small quantities here .
our goal was to just say , okay .
the oil will use back-up and the wind , the sun will serve the burden so that they can map the larger percentage .
somewhere here , there &apos;s a series of photographs -- here they are .
and if you want to go over 20 , 30 percent renewable energy , which is energy per year , not the performance at the moment , you have to turn off the diesel .
that is , at the moment , you have to make sure that the renewables can sort of take over the whole grid .
of course , you can only be manned in some way here .
nobody in the world has done this yet .
this is in little style , so you can also serve your razors in the car about a little change judge .
people always ask me , what are you doing research in adlershard ?
that &apos;s already going on .
but if you want to put together several of these changes , and they want to build a net , it &apos;s going to be very complicated .
and our goal was , we wanted to get to 70-odd percent renewable , and then there &apos;s this rest , the last 10 , 20 percent renewable , which is going to be very , very expensive , and that &apos;s not going to work , that you do it from batteries .
this will definitely be an energy carrier , which then , hydrogen , methane , power to gas , you know , or sh , that will be it .
this is actually a poster by notre dame , which was recorded correctly .
they have to go to a season storage , and winter summer , and not just match tag night .
we just wanted to know , what about a normal , stinky electrochemical battery .
how far do you even get there ?
and then they did a whole bunch of simulations .
and the wind and the sun and the load came to the conclusion , a very exciting conclusion that you &apos;re facing the conventional system that takes about 50 years to get a middle stream of about 50 cents a kilowatt-hour , about 40 cents a hour .
these were the very first calculations six years ago .
and then we said , okay .
well , if you &apos;re great , we have a business model .
we &apos;re cheaper than the same system when the same price goes up five percent a year .
and then we started negotiating with the insulanders .
we can move from the poster to a physical view of this environment .
what would be done ?
negotiated with investors , i looked for new social professionals .
we were only five people at the time to rebuild society .
and here &apos;s the representation again .
the brown is kind of the conventional system , the green is our system .
that our system also has a price rise , because we &apos;re doing 20 percent of it , and we &apos;re not going to go through a price increase on the other things .
and the power-utility , which is the electric supply company on the island , has said this is what we think is great .
we also want to support , but we don &apos;t believe you can solve the technical problem .
and so we decided to build a hall in berlin , where we can sort of map the electric relations of the island one to three very , very precisely .
that is , we went to look for the world to find the largest battery .
the point here is that we can do things with the social environment , and we &apos;re now collecting data from everybody -- from the entire collective memory of what , visually , the earth looks like -- and everything is connected .
here it is .
it comes naturally from asia , in which case from japan .
and funny , in the &apos; 70s , it &apos;s been developed at bbc mannheim , today abb , and it was then licensed to the japanese .
you can see , it &apos;s a very , very large battery .
it &apos;s got a megawatt performance , and it can get that performance for six hours , and that &apos;s the battery that we kind of got out of simulation technology .
and then they set them up .
we also put one of the same aggregate in the same size that it &apos;s standing there , in the hall , to actually bring the full dynamic behavior of this web , so in the hall , it &apos;s now like this , in the back of it , here &apos;s the big battery , here &apos;s all the umbrellas that we simulate the web .
over here , we simulate the whole transmission system , the kilometers of physics of cables , to sort of map the vibrational behavior on the web .
and here you can see the whole thing again .
we can also turn on two hundred kilowatts of photovoltaics on the web .
and of course , we all share the same adaptation needs .
it &apos;s a means by which the soul of a particular culture finds access to the material world .
all of these photographs are connected , and there &apos;s something that &apos;s bigger than the sum of the parts .
and here we see this again , again , the diesel , again , the whole , single aggregate .
and what we &apos;ve been doing , since two thousand , the hall has been done , until now , two thousand , almost everything that was here between the individual electronics system , was to develop software , we &apos;ve been doing .
so we &apos;re not a battery manufacturer , but we &apos;re going to define ourselves as a company that &apos;s just between the theme of battery and the theme of the web and everything in between .
you have to , of course , communicate to the battery , you have to be able to communicate to the web , and that &apos;s very complicated .
the beauty of this island is that you can basically take away all of the stuff that we &apos;re going to get if we want to increase our percentage of renewables .
so this whole discussion , how is it going to be moving back and forth right now , turning energy , like walking , on the island , we have , for example , five to 30 percent excess energy , so we &apos;re tired of the wind and the sun .
and then natural light offers smart-grid .
so smart-grid , a huge issue everywhere .
we can start to integrate electromobility on the island , ask questions , because you can manage the burden .
that is , if you &apos;re seven percent renewable , you &apos;re not going to be able to do it without memory .
you get a model that comes from all over the earth .
you can , by n smart-grid , you can , by expanding the nets , yes , you should definitely do that , listen to the percentage , but you will never be able to completely dispense from memory .
and that &apos;s the message . it &apos;s a little bit like that .
that &apos;s why a lot of people get there , and they look at this , just because you can see what problems you get .
when we turn off the oil , you don &apos;t have this rotating mass that causes a certain inertia on the web .
and our european network is basically just made up of loud rotating masses of large power plants , wherever the wave is rotating all around europe .
we look in this web , we see the 50 hertz , and when it gets nine hertz in ninety comma , we catch a few valves , then a little bit of a merh steam goes in , we get back up again .
this is the system .
and of course , that &apos;s incredible returns .
if you tear that down somewhere , it takes a while .
the spinning reserve has at least 10 seconds to keep the net stable .
think of this as the continuation of the work of stephen lawlers on virtual earth .
and in time , they can respond to other things again .
if you don &apos;t have that anymore , that rotating mass , you have to replace that with performance electronics and electrochemistry .
and we can turn two milliseconds out with this big battery .
and then you can see the enormous speed possibilities there are .
and the message is , we need to get rid of these rotating masses , if we want to sort of get our goals 20 , 20 percent , 20 percent , 30 , 30 percent , and so on , if we want to get there .
then we have to degrade our must-run capacity on the web .
must-run simply means the power plant is running to keep the frequency .
yes , that &apos;s a huge debate right now , building the coal plants , because we don &apos;t have any else , or gastorbines , because that doesn &apos;t work .
and we &apos;re just trying to make it clear that you can break down the capacity , the must-run capacity , by bringing electrochemical memory to the web .
and luckily , there &apos;s also a whole bunch of studies now .
and this is something that grows through the complexity that people use it with , and its use for the user gets bigger and bigger .
and for that purpose , people always come and look at our experimental level , which is sort of our island test .
and yes , the discussion is always about the question of , how far can you take away a piece of the far future ?
and many discussions that i &apos;ve had over the last six years have been sort of like the discussion that i &apos;ve had in the last 30 years on photovoltaics .
if it doesn &apos;t go , it &apos;s weak , it &apos;s a child &apos;s toy , we &apos;ve calculated everything , we &apos;ve never calculated .
we have 30 gigawatts of photovoltaics in germany today .
this is a role model .
and i just assume that in the next 30 years , we will have the same capacity of electrochemical storage around the world .
very simply , that &apos;s how it &apos;s going to come .
there will be a whole lot of resistance and arguments .
the nice thing is that i &apos;ve been experiencing , in the last two years , that the scientists are sitting on my side .
their own photographs are signed up with metadata that another person has entered .
we &apos;ve now gotten over 10 million funding projects , also to climb 10 megawatt-battery on the german net now .
this will happen next april .
so from that point , you also realize that there &apos;s a change there , and only from that defense to yes , to the idea that a hundred percent renewable is true .
and if you have a hundred percent renewable , it &apos;s like an autarkes system .
so far in discussions , these insulaners , they make autark , they have their own little web , which has nothing to do with our connection .
the question is , if you &apos;re completely independent of any fossil or uranium energy , which is drilled out somewhere in the world , and you &apos;re brought to an island .
and then they just use what &apos;s on the sun and the wind where they live .
and that &apos;s kind of our vision of a reasonable energy supply , and i &apos;m also grateful to cradle to cradle for saying that they use solar energy .
and that &apos;s what we do , and in that way , the talk of premium kola , is that you can be a collective again and use solar energy , here &apos;s a little bit together .
and yeah , i just want to encourage you , in the sense that you can be quiet a little bit crazy and also have a vision .
if somebody has been struggling to do all of these sacred sacred and communicated who you are , my photograph of the notre dame-cathedral is suddenly enriched with all of this data , and i can use it as a starting point to dive into this room , into these metaverse , using photographs of other people , and taking a kind of cross-model social experience with the use of other providers .
and you really have to stay pretty tough , but i think it &apos;s possible .
thank you .
when steve lopez , columnist the los angeles times , went through the streets at the center of los angeles , he heard a wonderful music .
she came from a man , an african-american , sympathetic , raw , homeless , who played on a violin that only had two strings .
many of you will know the story , because from steves &apos; article about it later , a book that was filmed , with robert downey junior as steve lopez and jamie foxx as a nathaniel anthony ayers , the contrabassistant who studied at juilliard-conservatory , and whose promising career was tragically ending through his paranoid schizophrenia .
nathaniel left juilliard , suffered a breakdown , and 30 years later , he lived as a homeless man on the streets of skid row in the center of los angeles .
i recommend all of you to read steves &apos; book , or to watch the movie , so that you can understand not only the wonderful connection that &apos;s been created between these two men , but also how music helped make this connection , and how it was the instrument that was allowed by this word game , to get the mithalf , nathaniel away from the street .
i met mr ayers in 2008 , two years ago , in walt disney concert hall .
he had just heard a demonstration of beethoven &apos;s first and fourth symphony , and came behind the stage to imagine myself .
he spoke in a very hot and gregarious note about yo-yo ma and hillary clinton and how the dodgers would never make it to the baseball world series , and that &apos;s because of the tacky passage of the first violin in the last sentence of beethoven &apos;s fourth symphony .
and of course , by the way , the immense rich virtual models of every interesting part of the world that have not been preserved just by flights or satellite images and so on , but by collective memory .
we got to talk about music , and a few days later , i got an email that said nathaniel was interested in my own education .
i have to mention that nathaniel rejected a medical treatment , because he had already been treated with electroshocks and with thorazine and handcuffs , a trauma that was tracking him all his life .
as a result , he &apos;s now particularly vulnerable to these schizophrenic stages , and they &apos;re sometimes so bad , and he &apos;s disappearing for days in the streets of skid row , always exposed to this horror and the torture source of his own mind .
and in the same kind of rice stage , nathaniel , when we first started our first lesson in the walt disney concert hall , and he had this miserable flicker in his eyes , and he was completely lost .
he talked about invisible demons and smoke and how someone wanted to poison him in the sleep .
i was afraid , not for opinion , but i was afraid that i could lose him , that he could fall into one of his states , and that i could destroy his relationship to the violin when i started talking about pitches and arpeggios and other exciting forms of didactic guesswork .
so i just started playing .
i played the first sentence by beethoven &apos;s violin concert .
and while i was playing , i noticed that there was a complete change in nathanite &apos;s eyes .
it was like he was standing under the influence of an invisible pharmaceutical , a chemical reaction , whose catalyst was my game .
thank you .
nathaniel &apos;s manic anger turned into understanding , into a quiet curiosity and grace .
and as if by a miracle , he took his violin and started playing some sections of violin concerts , and then asked me to end up playing them : mendelsson , tschaikowski , sibelius .
we then started talking about music from bach to beethoven , brahms , bruckner and all the other bs , from bartok to esa pekka salons .
and i realized that , not only did he have an encyclopedic knowledge of music , but also connected him to a close personal relationship .
he talked about her with a passion and an understanding that i only know about my colleagues in the philharmony of los angeles .
by playing music and talking about music , from this paranoid , confused man who had just moved through the streets of los angeles , a lover , educated , out-of-the-box musician in juilliard .
music is medicine . music is changing us .
for nathaniel , music means mental health .
because the music allows him to transform his thoughts and delusions with his imagination and creativity into something real .
and so he escapes his agonizing states .
i understand them right ? their software allows , at a certain point , within the next few years , all the images that are being used together by somebody in the world are basically connected ?
i understood that this is the nature of art .
and that &apos;s why we make music : so that we can form something that &apos;s inside of all of us , deep inside , our emotions , through our artistic lens , through our creativity to reality .
and the reality of that expression reaches all of us , and moves , inspired and united .
in terms of nathaniel , the music brought him back to a community of friends .
the redemption power of music brought him back to a family of musicians who understood him , who recognized his talent and saw him .
and i &apos;m going to keep playing with nathaniel , whether in the walt disney concert hall or skid row , because he reminds me of why i became a musician .
thank you .
bruno giussani : thank you very much . thank you .
robert gupta .
robert gupta : i want to play something that i have , unfortunately , stolen the cellist .
yeah . it doesn &apos;t make anything but discovery .
i hope you &apos;ll forgive me .
so i knew a lot of fish in my life .
i just loved two .
this first one , this was more like a passionate monkey .
it was a beautiful fish , good-tasting , good consistency , persistent , a bestseller on the menu .
what a fish .
even better , he was raised in aquaculture after the highest standards of sustainability .
so you could feel comfortable selling it .
i had a relationship with this beauty for several months .
one day , the ceo of the company called and asked if i could speak at an event about the sustainability of the farm .
every language is like an old-growth forest of the mind , a turning point , an idea , an ecosystem of spiritual possibilities .
if you like , it creates hyperlinks between the images .
&quot; of course , &quot; i said .
here was a company trying to solve what became this unimaginable problem for our chefs . how do we keep fish on our menu ?
in the last 50 years , we &apos;ve fished the ocean as we &apos;ve beaten the forests .
it &apos;s hard to overestimate the destruction .
ninety percent of the big fish that we love , the tuna , the healing butt , the salmon , the heavy fish , have collapsed .
there &apos;s almost nothing left .
so it &apos;s going to be a part of our future , or a bad aquaculture , a fishery building .
many arguments against it . fishermen plants are polluting the environment , most of them anyway , and they &apos;re inefficient , we take tuna . a big disadvantage .
he has a 15 to one food processing .
that is , 15 pounds of wildfish are necessary to get a pound of tuna .
and she does this because of the content in the images .
not very sustainable .
it doesn &apos;t taste very good either .
so here was finally a company that was trying to get it right .
i wanted to support them .
the day before the event , i called the ceo of public work for the company .
let &apos;s call it don .
&quot; no , &quot; i said , &quot; just to get the facts right , you &apos;re famous to grow out in the ocean so far as you don &apos;t contaminate the environment . &quot;
&quot; that &apos;s true , &quot; he said . &quot; we &apos;re so far out that the waste is distributed by our fish is not concentrated . &quot;
and then he added , &quot; we &apos;re basically a world of ourselves .
this feeding rate of 2.5 to one , &quot; he said .
and that &apos;s really exciting when you think about the abundance of the semantic information that many of these images have .
&quot; the best in the industry . &quot;
2.5 to one , great .
&quot; 2.5 to one what ? what do you feed ? &quot;
&quot; sustainable proteins , &quot; he said .
&quot; great , &quot; i said . put it up .
and that night i was in bed thinking , what the hell is a sustainable protein ?
so i called the next day , just before the event , don &apos;t .
i said , &quot; no , for example , what are sustainable proteins ? &quot;
he said he doesn &apos;t know . he &apos;s going to ask .
now , i was telephone with a few people in the company , and no one could give me a proper answer , until i finally got a telephone with the leading biologist .
like if you take a web search for images , where you put in sentences , and the text of the website contains a lot of information about which image that is .
let &apos;s call it don .
&quot; no , &quot; i said , &quot; for example , what are sustainable proteins ? &quot;
well , he mentioned some algae and some fish meals , and then he said chicken pellets .
i said , &quot; chicken pellets ? &quot;
he said , &quot; yes , feathers , skin , bone flour , remnant , dried and processed to feed . &quot;
i said , &quot; what percentage of your food is chicken ? &quot;
in the presumption of maybe two percent .
&quot; well , that &apos;s about 30 percent , &quot; he said .
i said , &quot; no , what &apos;s sustainable about feeding chicken to fish ? &quot;
there was a long pause in the line , and he said , &quot; there &apos;s just too much chicken in the world . &quot;
but what if the picture linked them to all of their images ?
i fell in love with this fish .
no , not because i &apos;m a self-righteous pleasure and good person .
that &apos;s me , in fact .
no , i actually fell in love with this fish , because i swear to god who tasted fish after this conversation to chicken .
this second fish , that &apos;s a different kind of love story .
it &apos;s the romantic way , the way you get to know your fish , the better you love the fish .
i ate it first in a restaurant in southern spain .
a friend of mine had been talking about this fish for a long time .
it &apos;s kind of slashed us .
he came to the table with a bright , almost shattering white color .
then the scope of the semantic cross connection and the abundance that comes out of it is really enormous . it &apos;s a classic network effect .
the chef had cooked it .
stop twice .
amazingly , he was still delicious .
who can make a fish taste so good after it was cooked so well ?
i can &apos;t , but this guy can .
let &apos;s call it miguel . it &apos;s actually called miguel .
and no , he didn &apos;t cook the fish , and he &apos;s not a chef , at least in the way that you and i understand it .
he &apos;s a biologist at veta la palma .
this is a fish lift in the southwestern corner of spain .
it &apos;s close to the mouth of the river of guadalquivir .
blaise , that &apos;s really incredible . heart congratulations .
until the 1980s , the farm was in the hands of argentina .
they grew meat cattle on what was basically wetlands .
they did that by irrigating the land .
they built this complicated sequence of channels , and they pushed water out of the country and out into the river .
well , they couldn &apos;t make it work , not economically .
and it was an ecological disaster .
it killed about 90 percent of the birds , which is a lot of birds in this place .
and so in 1982 , a spanish company with environmental awareness has bought the country .
what did they do ?
they have reversed the flow of water .
thank you very much .
they literally transformed the lever .
instead of pushing the water out , they used the channels to pull the water back in .
they flooded the channels .
they created a 11,000 hectares of fish -- bark , sea ice , shrimp , aal -- and in the process , miguel and his company completely reversed the ecological destruction .
the farm is incredible .
i mean , you &apos;ve never seen anything like this .
they stare out on the horizon , which is a million miles away , and all they see are curved channels and these dense , lush marches .
i wasn &apos;t there a long time ago with miguel .
he &apos;s an incredible guy , three parts charles darwin and a part of &quot; a crocodile to kiss . &quot;
okay ? we were there fighting through the wetlands , and i was crying and sweating , having mud up to my knees , and miguel &apos;s giving us a biology lecture in quiet .
i &apos;m going to tell you a couple of things from my book that i hope are in conjunction with other things that you &apos;ve already heard , and i &apos;m going to try to make some connections myself if you haven &apos;t noticed them .
here he &apos;s highlighting a rare glide .
now he mentioned the mineral needs of phytoplankton .
and here , he sees a pattern of bundles that reminds him of the tanzanian giraffe .
it turns out that miguel has spent most of his career in mikumi national park in africa .
i asked him how he became such a fish expert .
he said , &quot; fish ? i don &apos;t know about fish .
i &apos;m an expert in relationships . &quot;
and then he goes and falls into more just more rare birds and algae and strange water plants .
and don &apos;t get me wrong , that was really fascinating , you know , the biotic community unplugged , like that .
it &apos;s great , but i was in love .
i want to start with what i call &quot; official dogma . &quot;
and my head became weak about this cooked piece of delicious fish that i had on the night before .
so i interrupted it . i said , &quot; miguel , how come your fish taste so good ? &quot;
he pointed to the algae .
&quot; i know , boy , the algae , the phytoplankton , the relationships , that &apos;s incredible .
but what do you eat your fish ?
what &apos;s the food processing ? &quot;
well , he continues to tell me that it &apos;s such a rich system that the fish eat what they eat in the wild .
the plant biomass , the phytoplankton , the zooplankton , that &apos;s what feeds the fish .
the system is so healthy , it &apos;s completely self-esteem .
there &apos;s no food .
and of those 6,000 languages today , as we sit here in monterey , half of them are not whispered into the ears of children .
the official dogma of what ?
ever heard of a farm that doesn &apos;t feed their animals ?
later on in the day , i was driving around on this site with miguel , and i asked him , i said , &quot; for a place that seems so natural , &quot; unlike any farm i &apos;d ever been to , &quot; how do you measure success ? &quot;
at the moment , it was as if a film director had demanded a stage change .
and we bent around the corner , and we had the most incredible look at it , thousands and thousands of pinker flamingos , a literally pink carpet , so far as the eye goes .
&quot; that &apos;s success , &quot; he said .
&quot; look at your trees , pink .
they &apos;re bad . &quot;
bad ? i was completely confused .
i said , &quot; miguel , don &apos;t you get your fish ? &quot;
&quot; yes , &quot; he said .
the official belief of all western industrialized societies .
&quot; we lose 20 percent of our fish and fish eggs to the birds .
well , last year , on this site , there were 600,000 birds , more than 250 different species .
it &apos;s become the largest and one of the most important private bird reserves in all of europe today .
i said , &quot; miguel , is a well-thriving bird population not the last thing you want to have on a fish ? &quot;
he shaked his head , no .
he said , &quot; we &apos;re building extensively , not intense .
this is an ecological network .
the flamingos eat the shrimp .
the shrimp eats the phytoplankton .
so the more the pink the better the system . &quot;
the way the official dogma works is , when our goal is to maximize the public well-being of our citizens , it &apos;s mostly through the maximizing of the freedom of the individual .
okay , let &apos;s rethink that . a farm that doesn &apos;t feed their animals and a farm that measures their success in the health of their predators .
a fish lift , but also a bird reserve .
oh , and by the way , these flamingos from the beginning shouldn &apos;t even be there .
they breed in a city 50 miles away , where the ground environment is better for nest maintenance .
they fly 240 miles to the farm every morning .
and every night , they fly 50 miles back .
they do that because they can follow the striped white line on the highway a92 .
seriously .
i had sort of imagined a journey of penguins , so i looked at miguel .
i said , &quot; miguel , do you fly 240 miles to the farm , and then fly back 240 miles at night ?
the reason for this is that freedom in itself is good , valuable , meaningful , an unpredictable assumption for human .
do you do that for the kids ? &quot;
he looked at me as if i had just quoted a song by whitney houston .
he said , &quot; no . you do it because the food is better . &quot;
i didn &apos;t mention the skin of my beloved fish , which was delicious , and i don &apos;t like fish skin . i don &apos;t like it . i don &apos;t like it crunchy .
it &apos;s this biting , coded taste .
i almost never cook with it .
and yet , when i tried it in this restaurant in southern spain , it didn &apos;t tap into fish skin at all .
it tasted sweet and pure as if you were to take a bite from the ocean .
i mentioned that to miguel , and he was nodding .
he said , &quot; the skin seems like a sponge .
when people have freedom , each of us is about doing the things that maximize our public good and no one has to decide for us .
it &apos;s the last defense before something comes into the body .
it &apos;s evolved over evolution to look at unpurity . &quot;
and then he added , &quot; but our water doesn &apos;t have any disputes . &quot;
okay . a farm that doesn &apos;t feed their fish , a farm that measures their success in the success of their predators .
and then i realized , when he says , a farm that doesn &apos;t have any inpurity , he drives tremendous because the water that flows through this farm comes in from the river of guadalquivir .
it &apos;s a river that takes all the things that rivers now tend to carry them with them , chemical pollutants , abundance of pest control .
and when it &apos;s fought through the system , and it leaves the water clean than how it came in .
the system is so healthy , it cleans the water .
so not only one farm that feeds their animals , not only one farm that measures their success in the health of their predators , but a farm that is literally a water supply facility , and not just for these fish , but for you and me .
because when the water flows out , it decreases in the atlantic .
the way to maximize freedom is to maximize choice .
a drop in the ocean , i know , but i &apos;m going to take it , and that &apos;s what you should do , because this love story , as romantic , is also uplifting .
you might say that it &apos;s a recipe for the future for good food , whether we &apos;re talking about bark or meat cattle .
what we need now is a radical new concept of agriculture , of one where food actually tastes well .
but for a lot of people , that &apos;s a little too radical .
we &apos;re not realists , we &apos;re more enjoyable . we &apos;re lovers .
we love weekly markets . we love small family businesses . we talk about local food . we eat organic .
and if you say that these are the things that insure the future of good food , somebody stands up somewhere and says , &quot; hey people , i love pinpinamingos , but how are you going to feed the world ?
how will you feed the world ? &quot;
can i be honest ?
i don &apos;t like that question .
the more choices people have , the more freedom they have , and the more freedom they have , the more public good they have .
no , not because we &apos;re producing enough calories to feed the world more than just .
a billion people are going to starve today .
one billion -- that &apos;s more than ever before -- because of crashes of inequalities in distribution , not overall production .
now , i don &apos;t like this question because it &apos;s been the logic of our food system for the last 50 years .
feeding grain of herbivores , skull fights , monocultures , chemicals to the earth , chicken to fish , and all the time the agribusiness just asked , &quot; if we feed more people cheaper , how terrible can that be ? &quot;
that was the cause . it was the justification . it was the business plan of american agriculture .
we should call them what they are , an advertising in completion , a business that quickly feeds ecological capital that allows that same production to happen .
this is not an industry , and it &apos;s not agriculture .
our cornchamber is threatened today , not because of decreasing ingredients , but because of decreasing resources .
not through the latest mouths and tractor innovations , but through fertile land , not through pumps , but through fresh water , not through chains , but through forests , and not through fishing boats and nets , but through fish in the sea .
this is , i think , so deeply in our water supply , that it wouldn &apos;t come to your mind to question it .
they want to feed the world ?
let &apos;s start with the question : how are we going to feed ourselves ?
or better , how can we create conditions that enable every community to feed themselves ?
to do that , don &apos;t look at the agricultural industrial model for the future .
it &apos;s really old , and it &apos;s done .
capital , chemistry and machines are in there , and it never really produced a good thing to eat .
let &apos;s look at the ecological model instead .
that &apos;s the one that goes back to two billion years of labor experience .
look at miguel , farmers like miguel .
businesses that are not worlds for themselves , operations that are restoring instead of using , businesses that are expanding , instead of just intense , farmers that are not just generators , but experts for relationships .
and it &apos;s also deeply rooted in our lives .
because they are the ones who are also experts for taste .
and if i &apos;m really honest , you &apos;re a better chef than i &apos;ll ever be .
you know , that &apos;s right for me , because if that &apos;s the future of good food , it will be delicious .
thank you .
now , if i want to bring one thing to you today , it &apos;s that the total of the data that we consume is greater than the sum of your parts , and instead of thinking about information overload , i want you to think about how we can use information to form patterns , and we see trends that would otherwise not have become visible .
so , what we see here is a typical dying diagram of age .
the program i &apos;m using here is a little experiment .
it &apos;s called pivot , and what i can do with pivot is i can filter after a particular cause of death , let &apos;s say accidents .
and immediately i see another pattern that comes out .
and that &apos;s because in the middle of this , people are the most active and they &apos;re the most fragile over here .
i &apos;m going to give you some examples of what makes modern progress possible .
we can take a step further out and then rearrange the data and see that circular disease and cancer are the usual suspects , but not for everybody .
now , when we go on and sort of age , we say 40 years or more , we see that accidents are actually the main cause that people should be worried about .
and if you look at the research , it &apos;s particularly true in men .
so you can see that looking at information and data in this way reminds you of swimming in a living information graph .
and if we can do this for raw data , why not for content itself ?
so what we have here is the cover of every single sports illustrated that has ever been printed .
it &apos;s all here . it &apos;s all online .
you can test it after my talk in your rooms .
with pivot , you can dive into a decade .
you can dive into a particular year .
they don &apos;t teach little kids anymore , which means that if nothing is done , they &apos;re actually already dead .
this is my supermarket . this is not a big one .
you can jump directly to a particular issue .
now , when i look at this , i see the athletes that appear in this issue and the sports species .
i &apos;m a lance armstrong fan , so i click on this , and i show all the expenses in which lance armstrong is mentioned .
now , if i just want to get a bigger overview , i could think , &quot; ok , what if i look at all the bike lanes ? &quot;
so i &apos;m going to take a step back , and i &apos;m going to take the perspective .
now i see greg lemond .
and so you get an idea that if you go through this kind of information , target , broader , zoom out , you don &apos;t search or just surf .
you do something that &apos;s actually a little different .
it &apos;s a little bit in between , and we think it changes the way information can be used .
so i want to take this idea a little bit further with about what &apos;s a little crazy .
i just want to say a little bit about salatdressing .
what we &apos;ve done here is we &apos;ve taken every single wikipediasites and reduced them to a small summary .
the summary contains a short overview and a symbol of the area that it comes from .
i &apos;m just showing the top 500 of the most popular wikipediasites .
but even in this limited view , we can do a lot of things .
immediately we get a sense of the topics that are most popular on wikipedia .
i &apos;m going to choose the issue of government .
now , after i &apos;ve chosen government , i realize that the wikipediatoriums that are most likely to cover time magazine people of the year .
this is really important , because this is a realization that is not in a single wikipediasant .
that &apos;s just to see when you take a step back and look at the whole thing .
looking at one of these summaries , i can then go into the theme of time magazine &quot; people of the year , &quot; and see everybody together .
there are 175 dressings in my supermarket , if you don &apos;t count the 10 different extra olive oil and 12 balsamico-essions that you could buy to make a large number of salad dessings , in the unlikely case that none of the 175 in the store is right for you .
now , when i look at all of these people , i realize that the majority of them are government officials , some of them come from science . some , even less , come from the economy . here &apos;s my boss . and one comes from the music area .
and interestingly , bono is also a ted prize winner .
so we can now jump and look at all the ted prize winners .
you can see , we &apos;re surfing the web for the first time as if it &apos;s a web , not just from side to side , but much more abstract .
and so i want to show you something else that could be a little surprise .
i &apos;m just showing you the new york times website here .
pivot , this application -- i don &apos;t want to call it a browser ; it &apos;s really not a browser , but you can look at websites -- and we can bring this zooming technology to every single website like this .
so i can take a step back , and jump right to a specific section .
that &apos;s important because you can only look at web sites in this way , look at the entire internet course in the same way .
so i can zoom in in in my course in a certain time frame .
so that &apos;s how the supermarket is .
here &apos;s the state of the entire demonstration that i &apos;ve been holding up to here .
and i can sort of bring back everything i &apos;ve looked at today .
and when i step out and look at everything again , i can rearrange my trajectory , maybe , for my search past , here , i &apos;ve been looking for nepotistic , here for bing , or here for live labs .
and from here , i can go into the page and call them up again .
it &apos;s a metaphor that &apos;s used over and over again , and every time it makes the big picture bigger than the sum of the filament .
right now , in this world , we think that data is a curse .
we &apos;re talking about the curse of information overload .
we &apos;re talking about &quot; drowning into information . &quot;
what if we could turn that situation around and turn the internet on its head , so that instead of going from one to the other , we can start to get from many things to many things , and by doing that , we can see patterns that otherwise would have been hidden ?
if we can do that , that data trap , maybe a new source of information , will make sense of .
and then you go to the consumer electronics store to put together a stereo -- speakers , cd players , a cassette player , radio , amplifier . and in this one electronics business , there are so many stereo plants .
and , instead of just moving into information , we can get knowledge of it .
and if we know , maybe we can even get wisdom out of it .
that &apos;s what i stop with , thank you very much .
i grew up with a belonging portion of science fiction .
in my school , i drove to school with the bus every day , one hour per hour .
and my nose was always in a book , a science-fiction book that was kidnapping my thoughts in other worlds , and in a storytelling way , my deep inside of me , unsatiable curiosity satisfied .
this curiosity also showed that whenever i wasn &apos;t in school , i was traveling through the forests and gathering &quot; samples , &quot; frogs and snakes and beetles and ponds , all brought home and looked at the microscope .
i was totally excited about science , you know .
it was all about trying to understand the world and select the boundaries of the possible .
and my love of science fiction seemed to reflect in my environment , because back in the late &apos; 60s , we flew to the moon and studied the deep sea .
we can assemble 6.5 million different stereo facilities from the components that are offered in this one business .
jacques cousteau came into our living room with his fascinating shows that showed us animals and places and a world of wonder that we could never have imagined before .
i think that &apos;s a good thing to do with that science fiction role .
and i was an artist .
i could draw . i could paint .
and since there was neither video games nor this overseas with computer-generated movies nor all the imagery in the media landscape , i had to create the images in my head .
we all had to do that at the time . when we read a book as children , we took the description of the author and we projected it on the screen in our heads .
my response to that was to draw and paint of alien worlds , alien worlds , robots , spaceships and all that kind of thing .
in math education , i was constantly caught by the teacher , like me , hiding behind the textbook .
creativity had to be kind of out .
and something interesting happened , because what fascinated me about jacques cousteaus &apos;s shows was the idea of a completely unknown world here on earth .
you have to admit that this is a big choice .
i certainly would never get to an alien world with a spaceship , which seemed quite unlikely to me .
but here was a world that i could actually enter , here on earth , and it was just as fascinating and exotic as all of what i had always imagined when i was reading these books .
so , when i was 15 , i decided to get diver .
the only problem was that i lived in a small village in canada , 1,000 miles away from the nearest ocean .
but i didn &apos;t get daunted by that .
i annoyed my father until he finally found out a diving school in buffalo , new york , right on the other side of the border where we lived .
i made my submersible in a pool of ymca in the middle of winter in buffalo , new york .
but the ocean , a real ocean , i only got to face two years later when we moved to california .
since then , in the 40 years that have been dived , i &apos;ve spent about 3,000 hours underwater . 500 hours of that in submersibles .
and i &apos;ve learned that the world of the deep sea , even in the flat ocean , is as rich as fascinating life as we can possibly imagine .
in other areas -- the world of communication .
the fantasy of nature doesn &apos;t know boundaries , unlike our own noisy human imagination .
until today , i feel the most profound awe for what i see on my dives .
and my love of the ocean lasts , with the same intensity as eh and ever .
so when i went to a job as an adult , it was filming .
this seemed the best way to unite my inner capacity to tell stories , with my need to create images .
as a child , i was constantly drawing comic books and so on .
so movies were the way to bring together images and stories . that &apos;s what fit .
of course , the stories that i chose were from the science fiction section : &quot; terminator , &quot; &quot; aliens , &quot; and &quot; abyss . &quot;
at &quot; abyss , &quot; i was able to connect my preference for the underwater world and the diving with the filmmaking .
so my two passions kind of intertwined .
there was a time when i was a boy , you could have every phone you wanted , as long as he came from ma bell .
something interesting happened in &quot; abyss &quot; : to solve a narrative problem in this movie -- and that was , we had to create a kind of liquid water creature -- we took a computer-generated animation , cg , back .
and what came out was the first computer-generated software surface-character to ever see in a movie .
now , the movie didn &apos;t bring in money , and he just played his cost of production , but i noticed something fascinating : the audience around the world was like hypnotized by the magic that came out of it .
according to arthur clarke &apos;s law , you know , advanced technology and magic are no longer distinguished from each other .
so they saw something magical .
and that &apos;s what i found incredibly exciting .
and i thought to myself , &quot; wow , this has to be involved in film art . &quot;
so we went to &quot; terminator 2 , &quot; my next movie , much further .
together with ilm , we created the type of liquid metal there , and the success depended on how this effect was going to happen .
and it worked . again , we had created something magical , and the effect in the audience was the same , but we had a little bit more money in the movie .
you rented your phone . you didn &apos;t buy it .
of those two experiences , there was a whole new world , a whole new world of creativity for filmmakers .
so i started a company with my good friend , stan winston , who at that time was the best makeup and creature-designer , called digital domain .
the basic idea of this company was to skip the phase of analogous processes with optical printers , etc . , and start with digital production .
and then we did that , and then we gave us a competitive advantage for a while .
but in the mid- &apos; 90s , we realized that in the creature- and never-design -- which we actually started the company -- we were getting too slow .
i had written this piece called &quot; avatar , &quot; which should push the record in visual effects and computer-generated effects all over new heights , with realistic human , expressive characters that had been made by cg , and the main characters should be all cg , and the world should be cg .
but the knife bar was really pushing back , and people in my company told me that we &apos;re not going to be able to do this yet .
so i shifted this , and i made this other film about the big ship that goes down .
i sold this as a &quot; romeo and julia on a ship , &quot; and it became a love movie of epic scale , a passionate movie .
but secretly , i really wanted to go down to the real wreck of the titanic .
what could be more lonely than being confined by silence , to be one of the last people who speak your language , not to have a chance to pass on the wisdom of the ancestors , or to expect the hope of children ?
and one of the consequences of that was that the phone had never been broken .
that &apos;s why i made the movie .
that &apos;s the truth . the studio didn &apos;t know .
but i convinced you , by saying , &quot; we &apos;re diving to the wreck . we &apos;re filming the real wreck .
we &apos;re going to show it in the opening sequence of the movie .
this is hugely important . it &apos;s a good marketer . &quot;
and i convinced them to fund an expedition .
sounds crazy . but this returns to the fact that your imagination can create a reality .
we actually created a reality six months later where i found myself in a russian dive boat , four miles below the surface of the north atlantic , looking at the real titanic through a bulleye .
this was not a movie , no hd , this was real .
so , that really blew my mind .
these days are over .
and the preparation for that was enormous . we had to build cameras and headlights and everything .
and i noticed how much these deep sea dives , a space mission resembled .
well , they were also highly technical , and they needed extensive planning .
you go up into this capsule , you float down into this dark , hostile environment , where there &apos;s no hope for rescue , if you don &apos;t make it yourself back .
and i thought , &quot; wow , that &apos;s the same as if i was in a science fiction movie .
that &apos;s really cool . &quot;
i was just obsessed with studying the deep sea .
anyway , from the part that has to do with curiosity and science . it was all . it was adventure , it was curiosity . it was imagination .
and it was an experience that couldn &apos;t give me hollywood .
because , you know , i could imagine a creature that we could then design a visual effect for , but i couldn &apos;t imagine what i was going to see outside the window .
we now have almost an infinite selection of telephones , especially in the world of mobile phones .
in some of the following expeditions , i &apos;ve seen creatures in thermal vents , and sometimes things that i &apos;d never seen before , sometimes things that no one had ever seen before , and for the science at the time that we saw , there were no words for it .
so that really got me upside down , and i wanted more .
and so i made a slightly unusual decision .
after the success of &quot; titanic , &quot; i said , &quot; okay , i want to put my main job as a filmmaker in hollywood on ice and i &apos;m going to be a full-time researcher for a while . &quot;
and then we started , we went to the bismarck , and we explored them with robotic experiences .
we went back to the wreck of titanic .
we took little robots that we had built that wrapped a fiberglass cable .
our intention was to dive in and look at the inside of the ship , which had never been done before .
no one had ever explored the inside of the wreck , and you didn &apos;t have the means to do it , so we developed the technology that we needed .
well , i &apos;m sitting there on the deck of the titanic , in a dive boat , and i &apos;m looking at planks that are quite similar to these boards , and i know once the band has played there .
these are the mobile phones of the future .
and i &apos;m flying with a little robotic stuff through the gear of the ship .
i &apos;m just praying it , but my consciousness is within the vehicle .
it felt like i was physically in the ship wreck of the titanic .
this was the most surreal form of a déjí-vu that i &apos;ve ever experienced , because before i got around a corner at a time , i always knew what was going to show up in the light cone of the vehicle , because i &apos;d been running across the movie for months when we were shooting the movie .
because the set was an accurate copy of the ship &apos;s blueprints .
so that was a very strange experience .
she made me realize this telepresence experience that you can use such robotic avatars , and so you can move your consciousness into the vehicle , into this other form of existence .
it was really profound .
and maybe a little bit of a glimpse of what might happen in a few decades , if you have cyborg bodies to explore or do other things , in all kinds of post-humane futures that i can think of as a science fiction fan .
after these expeditions , we started to really learn what we were seeing down there , for example , these deep sea waves , where we saw these incredibly amazing animals , and these are sort of aliens , but here on earth .
my favorite one is in the middle -- mp3 playwright , nas-hair trimmer and crème brème fackel .
they live with the help of chemosynthesis .
they don &apos;t exist in a sunlight system , as we do .
and so you can see animals that are right next to a 500 degree centigrade that they can survive there .
at the same time , i was also very interested in space science , which was , again , the science fiction influence from my childhood .
and so i ended up with the people who are interested in space , and who have to do with nasa , and they sit in the nasa expertise council , and they &apos;re planning real space missions , and they go to russia , they &apos;re going through the biomedical protocol , and they &apos;re going to go to the international space station , and they &apos;re going to take our 3d camera system .
that was fascinating .
but in the end , it was that i took space scientists to the deep sea with us .
i took them with me , and i took them access to the world down there : astrobiologists , planetary scientists , people who were interested in such extreme situations , and i took them to the sources so they could look around , sample and test instruments and so on .
we did documentary films , but actually did science , in particular , space science .
so the circle between my existence was a science fiction fan , then as a child , and the implementation into reality .
and if you haven &apos;t seen this in your business yet , you can be sure you &apos;re going to be .
in the course of this journey of discovery , i learned a lot .
i &apos;ve learned a lot about science , but i &apos;m sure you think a director has to be a leader like a ship captain or something .
but i didn &apos;t understand much of leadership before i entered these expeditions .
because at some point , i had to say to myself , &quot; what am i doing here ?
why do i do that ? what &apos;s going on ? &quot;
these stupid films don &apos;t bring us any money .
we &apos;re going to play the cost of production . we &apos;re not going to be a lane .
everybody thinks i &apos;m between &quot; titanic &quot; and &quot; avatar &quot; and i would have been celebrating the nails on a towel on a beach somewhere .
i made all these films , these documentaries , for a very small audience .
no fame , no honor , no money . what are you doing ?
and what it does is it makes people walk into business and ask that question .
you do it for the sake of the challenge -- and the ocean is the most challenging environment there is . you do it for the discovery space , and because of the strange connection that comes from a small group of people making a team .
because we did all this with just 10 to 12 people who worked uninterrupted for years , sometimes we were at sea for two to three months in a row .
and in this community , you realize that the most important thing is the awe you have in front of each other , because you &apos;ve done a job that you can &apos;t explain to anyone else .
when you go back to land and you say , &quot; we had to do it , the fiberglass , the sound weakness , and all the way around , all the technology , and the difficulty , the human performance , when you &apos;re working on lake , &quot; you just can &apos;t explain the other one . that &apos;s like policemen or soldiers who have done something together and know that they can never explain it .
there &apos;s a connection , a mutual respect .
so when i came back to make my next film &quot; avatar , &quot; i was trying to apply the same leadership style , which is that you respect your team and you deserve to respect it .
it really changed the dynamics .
so again , i stood on a small team on unknown terrain , and we turned &quot; avatar &quot; with a new technology that didn &apos;t exist before .
it &apos;s incredibly exciting .
an enormous challenge .
now , do you know what the answer to this question is ?
and we became a real family for a four-and-a-half year period .
it changed my way of making films , completely .
there were people who thought we &apos;d really redesigned these ocean creatures and transported them on the planet , pandora .
for me , it was more basically a way of doing my job , the actual process that changed as a result .
so what can we conclude from all this ?
what lessons have we learned ?
i think first of all , the curiosity .
it &apos;s the most powerful human property .
our imagination is a force that can even create a reality .
and the attention of your team is more important than any lorbeer in the world .
the answer is no .
i come up with young filmmakers who say , &quot; give me a advice to do something like this . &quot;
and i say , &quot; don &apos;t constrain yourself .
that &apos;s what other people get . don &apos;t do it for yourself , don &apos;t bet for yourself , but take risks for you . &quot;
nasa has such a favorite sentence : &quot; failure is not an alternative . &quot;
but in art and in exploration , failure has to be an alternative , because that &apos;s where it guarantees a reputation of trust .
no important endeavor that innovation demanded was ever done without risk .
you have to be willing to take those risks .
that &apos;s the thought i &apos;d like to leave you with , and failure is quite an alternative , but fear is not . thank you .
today i &apos;m talking to you about energy and climate .
and this may be a surprise , because my full-time work at the foundation is all about vaccines and seeds , about the things that we need to invent and deliver to allow the poorest two billion to live better .
it &apos;s not possible to buy a mobile phone that doesn &apos;t do too much .
but energy and climate are extremely important for these people , in fact , more important than anyone else on the planet .
climate degradation means that their seeds are not going to grow over many years . it &apos;s too much or too little rain . things are going to change as they can &apos;t sustain their fragile environment .
that leads to starvation . it leads to uncertainty . it leads to unrest .
so , climate change is going to be terrible for you .
and also , the energy cycle is very important to you .
in fact , if you could only reduce the price from one thing to the poverty reduction , energy would be far the most effective .
well , the energy cycle has fallen over time .
in fact , the progress society is based on energy advances .
coal evolution pushed the industrial revolution , and even in the 20th century , there was a rapid case in the electricity cycle , and that &apos;s why we have refrigerators , air conditioners , we can make modern materials and do so many things .
so we &apos;re in a wonderful situation of electricity in the rich world .
and yet , this terrible destiny actually happens to someone on earth , about every two weeks , because every two weeks , an elderly person dies and takes the last silver of an old language and goes to the grave .
in other aspects of life that are much more significant than buying objects , the same explosion of choice is true .
but if we reduce the price -- let &apos;s cut the price in half -- we hit a new barrier , and that barrier is related to co2 .
co2 warms the planet , and the equation for co2 is actually quite clear .
they &apos;re adding up the co2 , which leads to temperature increases , and that temperature elevation has some very negative consequences , effects on the weather , and perhaps worse , the indirect result that the natural ecosystems cannot adapt to such rapid changes , and therefore whole systems collapse .
now , the exact correlation between a co2 rise , and the resulting temperature change , and where the other consequences are , there are some ambiguity , but not very many .
and there &apos;s certainly ambiguity about how bad they &apos;re going to follow , but they &apos;re going to be extremely bad !
i asked the top scientists several times , &quot; do we really have to get down to zero ?
isn &apos;t it enough for half or a quarter ? &quot;
the answer is , until we get close to zero , the temperature will continue to rise .
so it &apos;s a big challenge .
it &apos;s very different from saying we have a 3.5 foot truck , which has to be under a three-foot bridge , and you can kind of squeeze it underneath it .
health -- it &apos;s no longer the case in the united states that you go to the doctor , and the doctor tells you what to do .
this one has to go down , down to zero .
well , we release a lot of carbon dioxide every year , over 26 billion tons .
every american is about 20 tons . people from poor countries , less than one .
on average , it &apos;s about five tons for everyone on the planet .
and somehow , we have to make change that down to zero .
it &apos;s been up all the time .
only different economic changes have actually influenced it , and we have to go from rapid increases to reducing and reducing to zero .
this equation has four factors . a little bit of multiplication . you have this thing on the left -- co2 that you want to bring to zero , and that &apos;s going to depend on the number of people , on the services that every person uses on average , the average energy for every service and the co2 that &apos;s emitted per unit of energy .
so let &apos;s look at every factor , and let &apos;s think about how we get it to zero .
probably one of these numbers has to get very close to zero .
instead , you go to the doctor , and the doctor tells you , we could do a , or we could do b .
now this is basic algebra , but let &apos;s go through it .
first , we have the population .
today , 6.8 billion people live .
and it goes to nine billion . it &apos;s moving to nine billion .
if we &apos;re very successful with new vaccines , health care and reproduction medicine , we might be able to reduce that by 10 to 15 percent , but right now we see a slope by 1.3 .
the second factor is the services that we use .
that includes everything , the food that we eat , clothing , television , heating .
these are very good things and poverty reduction means making these services accessible to almost everybody on the planet .
it &apos;s great that this number goes up .
in the rich world , in the upper billion , we might be able to make a difference and use less , but on average , that number will increase every year , and therefore more than doubling , the number of services that are provided per person .
a has these benefits and risks .
here &apos;s a very basic service . is there light at home so you can read the homework ?
and these students don &apos;t have it , so they go out and read their school assignments under the street .
well , in efficiency , the e , the energy per service , there &apos;s finally good news .
we have something that doesn &apos;t rise .
because of various successes in the light sector , through other autotypes , through new methods in the house , there are lots of services , and some services for energy use are reduced by 90 percent .
in other services , like fertilizers &apos; production , 105 : 05 : 56,000 -- &amp; lt ; 00 : 05 : 58,000 or air traffic or air traffic , the playground for improvement is much smaller .
in total , if we &apos;re optimistic , we might get a reduction by a factor three , or maybe even by a factor six .
but in the first three factors , we &apos;ve gone from 26 billion to maybe very best 13 billion tons . and that &apos;s just not enough !
so let &apos;s look at the fourth factor -- and this will be a key factor -- that &apos;s the amount of co2 that &apos;s emitted per unit of energy .
the question is , can you get this to zero ?
b has these benefits and risks . what do you want to do ?
if you burn coal , no .
if you burn natural gas , no .
almost every manufacturing method for electricity today emitts co2 , except for renewables and nuclear energy .
so , what we need to do at a global level is create a new system .
we need energy wonders .
now , when i use the term &quot; miracle , &quot; i don &apos;t mean the impossible .
the microprocessor is a miracle . the pc is a miracle .
the internet and its service is a miracle .
people here have contributed to the development of many of these miracles .
usually there &apos;s no deadline that you need a miracle to a certain date .
and they say , &quot; doctor , what should i do ? &quot;
you know , normally you &apos;re just standing there , and some are coming , some are not .
but in this case , we have to give full gas and get a miracle in a very short time .
well , i wondered , how can i really get this over ?
is there a natural illustration , a demonstration that sparks the idea of people here ?
i remembered last year when i brought mosquitos , and somehow people liked that .
the idea became really tangible to you , you know , there are people living with mosquitos .
for energy , this is what i came up with .
i decided that the free of fireflies would be my three-year-old contribution to the environment here .
so here are some natural fireflies .
i was told that they don &apos;t bite . in fact , they &apos;re not even going to leave the glass .
the doctor says , a has these benefits and risks , and b has these benefits and risks .
well , there are all kinds of play solutions like this , but they all don &apos;t do much .
we need solutions , either one or another , that have a unimaginable scaling and unimaginable reliability , and even though there are many directions where people are looking for it , i see only five that can afford these big demands .
i left out tides , geothermal , fusion and biofuels .
these may contribute a moderate contribution , and if they do better than i expect , that would be great , but my core statement here is that we have to work on all those five , and we can &apos;t give up because they &apos;re intimidating us , because all of these have significant problems .
let &apos;s first look at burning fossil fuels , burning from either coal or natural gas .
what you have to do there may seem simple , but it &apos;s not . you have to capture all the co2 that comes out of the chimneys after burning , and then storing under pressure , and then storing somewhere , and hoping it stays there .
there are some pilot projects that do this at a 60 percent level -- 80 percent level , but it &apos;s going to be very difficult to get 100 percent . and to get an agreement on the co2 level is a big challenge . but the biggest problem here is the salmon time question .
who &apos;s going to make it safe ?
who can guarantee something that literally , many billion times larger than any kind of waste that you can imagine from nuclear and other things ?
that &apos;s a lot of volume .
what do you want to do ?
so this is a tough nut .
next , nuclear energy .
they also have three big problems . the cost , especially in highly regulated countries , is high . the question for security is that you really feel that nothing can go wrong , despite the human participation , that the fuel is not used for weapons .
and then what do you do with the waste ?
because even though it &apos;s not very big , there &apos;s a lot of concerns .
so three very difficult problems that might be soluble , and that &apos;s why you should work on .
i &apos;ve summarized the last three of the five .
it &apos;s the renewables , as they &apos;re often called .
and they also have -- although it &apos;s great that they don &apos;t need fuel -- they have some disadvantages .
one is the energy density that these technologies generate dramatically lower than power plants .
and if you said , &quot; if you were me , doctor , what would you do ? &quot;
these are energy farms , you talk about a lot of square kilometers , a thousand times more land than a normal power station .
and also , these sources are interruptions .
the sun doesn &apos;t shine all day , it doesn &apos;t shine every day , and it doesn &apos;t always hurt the wind .
that &apos;s why , when you depend on these sources , you have to have a way to get the energy in times when it &apos;s not available .
so there are big prices here . there are challenges in transmission . for example , if we say that the energy source is outside the country , you don &apos;t just need the technology , you also need to deal with the risk that the energy comes from where else .
and there &apos;s the storage problem .
and to show you the dimension , i &apos;ve looked at all sorts of batteries that are made : the ones for cars , computers , cell phones , flashlights , for everything , and i &apos;ve compared that to the amount of electronic energy that the world uses , and i found that all the batteries that we &apos;re producing now could store less than 10 minutes of total energy .
so we need a big breakthrough here , something that will be about a factor of 100 better than the approaches at the moment .
it &apos;s not impossible , but it &apos;s not that easy .
this is what happens when you try to get these interrupted sources about 20 percent -- 30 percent of the consumption .
the doctor says , &quot; but i &apos;m not you . &quot;
if you want to support 100 percent , you need an incredible battery of wonder .
now , where should we go : what &apos;s the right approach ?
a &quot; manhattan project &quot; ? how do we get to the goal ?
what we need is a lot of companies working on this . hundreds of companies .
in each of these five , we need at least 100 people .
many of you will say , they &apos;re crazy ! that &apos;s good .
i think there are a lot of people here in the ted group who are already engaged in this .
bill gross has several companies , including one called esolar , which has great solar thermal technologies .
vinod khosla investes in dozens of companies that have great things and interesting opportunities , and i &apos;m trying to support that .
nathan myhrvold and i are funding a company that may surprise the nuclear approach .
and i know some of you say , &quot; isn &apos;t it better ? &quot; the world wouldn &apos;t be a better place if we all just talk one language ? &quot; and i say , &quot; well , let this language be yoruba . let it be cantonic .
the result is -- we call it &quot; patients autonomy , &quot; which sounds like a good thing , but in reality , a shift in the burden of the responsibility for making decisions from someone who knows something -- namely the doctor -- somebody who knows nothing and is most likely sick , and therefore not in the best constitution , making a decision -- namely the patient .
there are some innovations in the nuclear area ; modular , liquid .
the development has stopped in this industry a while ago , so it &apos;s not a big surprise that some good concepts are lying around .
the terrapower-concept means that instead of a part of uranium , the one percent , the u235 , we decided to burn the 99 percent , the u238 .
that &apos;s a pretty crazy idea .
but in fact , you &apos;d been thinking about it for a long time , but you could never reasonably simulate whether it would work , but since there &apos;s modern supercomputers , you can simulate it and see that , yes , with the right materializing approach , it looks like it works .
and because you burn that 99 percent , the cost profile is much better .
in fact , you burn the waste , and you can even use the waste of today &apos;s reactors as a fuel .
instead of breaking your head over it , you just burn it . it &apos;s a great thing .
the uranium is consumed gradually , a little bit like a candle .
you can see that it &apos;s a kind of column , often called &quot; traveling wave reactor . &quot;
there &apos;s an enormous marketing for prescription drugs for people like you and me , which , if you think about it , doesn &apos;t make any sense , because we don &apos;t buy them .
that really solves the fuel problem .
here &apos;s a picture of a place in kentucky .
this is the waste , the 99 percent . you have the part that &apos;s burned today , so it &apos;s called the utilized uranium .
this is what drives the u.s. for hundreds of years .
and if you take ocean water and you just film it , you get enough fuel for the rest of the planet &apos;s life .
you know , there &apos;s still a lot of challenges , but it &apos;s an example of hundreds of concepts that we need to get forward .
let &apos;s think about how we should measure our success .
what should our testimony look like ?
well , let &apos;s go to the goal that we have to reach , and then we talk about the intermediate step .
many people talk about 80 percent reduction by 2050 .
why are they advertising around us if we can &apos;t buy ?
it &apos;s really , really important that we get there .
the rest of the 20 percent will be produced in poor countries , and still a little bit of agriculture , and hopefully wal-threats and cement will be clean until then .
so , in order to reach that 80 percent , the developed world , including countries like china , has to completely reframe their electricity generation .
the other note is whether we use the zero-emission technology , whether it &apos;s used in all the developed world , and we &apos;re on the way to get it to the rest of it .
that &apos;s terribly important .
that &apos;s going to be a key element of this stuff .
if we go back from there , what should the 2020 witness look like ?
it should contain the two elements again .
we should use efficiency to get reductions in the way , and the less we emitted , the less the co2 is going to be , and therefore the temperature is going to be lower .
but actually , this note for the things that we do that don &apos;t completely lead to the big reductions , just the same , or even a little less important as the other , which is the speed of innovation for these breakthroughs .
and the answer is , you expect us to call the doctor the next morning and ask us to change the prescription .
we have to follow these breakthroughs with whole gas , and we can measure this : in corporate numbers , in pilot projects and regulation changes .
there &apos;s a lot of great books on this topic .
the al gore book &quot; we have the choice &quot; and david mckays &apos; &quot; sustainable energy without the hot air . &quot;
they really go through it , and they create a framework where this can be discussed , because we need support from all sides .
there are some things that need to come together .
this is a wish .
a very concrete wish that we will invent this technology .
if you just allowed me a wish for the next 50 years , i could choose the president , a vaccine , and i love that , or i could choose that wish , which is halved energy cycle without co2 , i would find that wish .
this one has the biggest impact .
if we don &apos;t get that wish , the digging between the long term and the short-term people will be terrible , between the united states and china , between the poor and the rich , and almost all of the lives of those two billion will be much worse .
something as profound as our identity is now a question of choice , as to show this slide .
so what do we need to do ?
what are i appealing for ?
we need to use for more research .
when countries meet in places like coppenhagen , they shouldn &apos;t just talk about co2 .
they should discuss this innovation strategy , and they would be shocked by the ridiculously small ones spent on these innovative approaches .
we need market dancing , co2 taxes , cap &amp; amp ; trade , something that creates a price signal .
we need to spread the message .
we need to have dialogue of rational and more complete , and also the things that are undertaken by the government .
it &apos;s an important wish , but i think we can fulfill it .
thank you .
we don &apos;t inherit identity ; we invent it .
thank you .
thank you . thank you .
thank you . just to understand terrapower a little bit better -- first of all , can you give us an idea of the scale of this investment ?
bill gates : to do the simulation on a supercomputer , to get all the big scientists , what we &apos;ve done , we only need a few 10 million . and even if we &apos;ve tested our materials in a russian reactor to make sure it works reasonably , you &apos;re only in the 1000s .
the hard step is to build the first reactor , find another billion , the regularians and the place that actually builds the first one .
once the first one is done , when it &apos;s as promised , it &apos;s all clear , because the economy , the energy density is as different from nuclear energy as we know it .
so , to get this right , it means building deep into the ground almost like a vertical column of nuclear fuel , this consumable uranium , and then the process at the top begins and continues to work down ?
bg : exactly . today you have to replenish the reactor , so there &apos;s a lot of people and a lot of controls that can go wrong . this thing where you open it up and bring things in -- or out . that &apos;s not good !
but if you have very cheap fuel , you can fill it for 60 years -- think of a column -- that buried it without all the complexity .
and it &apos;s sitting there , and it &apos;s burning for 60 years , and then it &apos;s done .
and we &apos;re often reinventing ourselves as often as we want .
a nuclear reactor that provides a solution to the waste itself .
bg : yeah . well , what happens to the waste : you can let it sit -- there &apos;s a lot less waste with this method -- then you take it and you put it in the next reactor and you burn it further .
and we start by taking the waste that already exists , which is in these refrigerators or dry containers in the reactors . that &apos;s our launch fuel .
so what was a problem for these reactors is what we put in our filling , and it dramatically reduces the volume of waste in this process .
but while you &apos;ve been talking to different people in the world about these possibilities .
where is the biggest interest in actually implementing this ?
bg : well , we haven &apos;t yet figured out a place , and there &apos;s a lot of interesting revelations for everything that &apos;s called the &quot; nuclear &quot; in the name . there &apos;s a lot of interest , and the people of the company were in russia , india , china ... i was here , and i &apos;ve met the minister of energy , and i &apos;ve talked about how this fits the energy agenda .
i &apos;m optimistic . you know , the french and japanese have done something along the way .
this is a variant of one thing that was made .
this is an important step forward , but it &apos;s like a faster reactor , and some countries have built these , so everyone who has implemented a fast reactor is a candidate for our first one .
that means every day , when you wake up in the morning , you have to decide what kind of person you want to be .
in your mind , time frame and probability of really getting into life ?
bg : now we need one of these scalable , stream-generating things that are very cheap , we have 20 years to invent and then 20 years to use .
this is sort of the deadline that has shown us the environmental models that we need to stop .
and , you know , terrapower , if everything goes well , and that &apos;s a big wish , could keep it easy .
and luckily , today , there are dozens of companies , and we need hundreds of companies that , as well , if their approaches work , the promotion for their pilots can be provided for it .
and it would be best if it could be done by several , because then you could use a mixture .
anyway , we need a solution .
in terms of the great possible breakthroughs , is this the biggest thing you know ?
bg : an energy breakthrough is the most important .
it would have been without the environmental requirement , but it makes it so much more important .
in terms of marriage and family , there was a time when the standard assumption was that almost everybody had one , and they got married as fast as they could , and then they got kids as quickly as they could .
in the nuclear sector , there are other innovative companies .
you know , we don &apos;t know their work as well as this , but there &apos;s the modular method , which is a different approach .
there &apos;s a liquid reactor type that seems a little hard , but they might say that about us .
and so there are different ones , but the nice thing about this is that a uranium molecule has a million times as much energy as a , say , a coal molecule , and therefore , if you can deal with the problems , and they &apos;re mostly the radiation , the footprint , and the cost , plays the potential , so the impact on the land and other things , almost in your own league .
if that doesn &apos;t work , what ?
do we have to bring emergency measures to try and keep the temperature stable ?
bg : when you get into this situation , it &apos;s as if you &apos;ve eaten too much , and you &apos;re about to have a heart attack . what do you do ? you might need a heart surgery or something .
there &apos;s a research direction called geoengineering , which involves different techniques to delay warming , so that we could get 20 or 30 years longer to run together .
this is just an insurance method .
you hope that we don &apos;t need that .
the only real choice was &quot; who , &quot; not when , and not what they did after that .
some people say you shouldn &apos;t work on insurance , because it might make you lazy , so you keep eating , because you know you &apos;re going to save your heart surgery .
i don &apos;t know if that &apos;s smart , if you look at the importance of this problem , but there &apos;s now a discourse in geoengineering about whether you should have that in case things are coming faster , or it takes that innovation longer than we expect .
climate change : do you have one or two sentences for those to maybe convince you ?
bg : well , unfortunately , the skeptics live in very different camps .
those who make scientific arguments are very little .
do you say that there are negative effects that have to do with the clouds that are shifting things ?
there are very , very few things you can even say , of which there is a chance in a million .
the main problem here is kind of like aids .
you make the mistake now , and you pay a lot later .
and so the idea is , now , if you have all kinds of urgent problems to invest in something that you have just later -- and the investment is not so clear . in fact , the ipcc report is not necessarily the worst scenario , and there are people in the rich world looking at ipcc and saying , okay , that &apos;s not a big drama .
let them be sophii . &quot;
today , everything is easy to have .
the fact is that this uncertainty should be worried about us .
but my dream here is that , if you can make it economic , and at the same time , the co2 is removing , the skeptics say , &quot; okay , i &apos;m not interested in it , i wish it wasn &apos;t co2 , i wish it would be , but i &apos;ll probably accept it because it &apos;s cheaper than the previous method . &quot;
and that would be their answer to the bjordan lomborg argument that if you used all this time and energy to solve the co2 problem , all the other goals suffer from it , the poverty reduction , the fighting of malaria , and so on , it &apos;s a stupid waste of resources to invest money on it , while there are better things we can do .
bg : well , the actual spending on research -- let &apos;s say the u.s. should spend 10 billion more a year than they do today -- that &apos;s not that dramatic .
it should not suffer from other things .
you get too big money , and this is where reasonable people can disagree , if you have something that &apos;s not economic , and you try to finance it . for me , most waste is happening .
unless you &apos;re very short before a breakthrough , and you &apos;re just funding the learning curve , and i think we should try more things that have the potential to be much cheaper .
if the distraction you get is a very high energy cycle , then only the rich can keep up .
i mean , each of us here could spend five times as much on our energy without changing its lifestyle .
but for the bottom two billion , it &apos;s a disaster .
i teach wonderful intelligent students , and i give them 20 percent less work than i used to do .
and even lomborg thinks over .
now , his new flap is , &quot; why isn &apos;t the research going to be discussed anymore ? &quot;
he &apos;s still associated with the skeptic camp , but he &apos;s understood that this is a very lonely group , and so now he &apos;s got the research argument .
and this is a thought that i think is appropriate .
the research , it &apos;s just crazy , how little it &apos;s being supported .
bill , i think i speak for almost all the people here when i say , i really hope your wish will be true . thank you very much .
bg : thank you .
a few years ago , at ted , peter skillman presented a design competition called &quot; the marshmallow challenge . &quot;
the idea is pretty simple . four teams have to build the largest free-standing structure with 20 spaghetti , about three feet of tape , about three feet of thread and a marshmallow .
the marshmallow has to be on top .
and that &apos;s not because they &apos;re less smart , not because they &apos;re less careful .
and , although it seems really simple , it &apos;s actually really hard , because it urges people to work very quickly .
and so i thought this was an interesting idea , and i turned it into a design workshop .
it was a huge success .
since then , i &apos;ve been doing about 70 workshops around the world , with students , developers and architects , even with ctos of fortune 50-company , and there &apos;s something about this task that allows deep impressions into the nature of collaboration , and i want to share with you some of them .
most people usually start to orient themselves to the task .
you talk about what it &apos;s going to look like , you &apos;re running around power .
then they spend a little bit of time in planning and organization , sketching and laying out spaghetti .
they spend a lot of their time in the assembly of ever-growing structures .
and finally , just before you don &apos;t have time , somebody takes the marshmallow , and you put it very gently on the top , step back and &quot; ta-da &quot; ! admire your work .
but what happens , almost always , is that the ta-da becomes a &quot; uh-oh , &quot; because the weight of the marshmallows causes the whole thing to bend and collapse .
it &apos;s because they &apos;re engaged in other things , they ask themselves , &quot; should i marry or not ? should i marry now ?
there are a number of people who have much more &quot; uh-oh &quot; moments than others , and among the worst , fresh bwl graduates .
they lie , they cheat , they &apos;re confused and they produce really drought shapes .
and of course , there are teams that have much more &quot; ta-da &quot; and among the best of the children &apos;s college graduates .
and that &apos;s pretty amazing .
as peter told us , they not only produce the highest towers , but also the most interesting structures of all .
what you might ask is , how come that ? why ? what about that ?
and peter says , &quot; none of the children spend time being the head of the spaghetti gmbh . &quot;
they don &apos;t spend time in power fights .
but there &apos;s another reason .
and that is that bwl students were trained to find the right plan , ok !
should i marry later ? should i have children first , or should i make a career ? &quot;
and then realizing it .
what happens when you put the marshmallow on the top , you don &apos;t have time anymore , and what happens ?
it &apos;s a crisis .
sounds familiar , what ?
what kindergarten kids do differently is they start with the marshmallow and they build prototypes , successful prototypes , always with the marshmallow at the top , so that they have multiple times the opportunity to repair bloody prototypes .
constructors recognize this kind of collaboration as the core of an iterative process .
and with every trial , the kids get instant feedback , what works and what doesn &apos;t .
so the performance of working with prototypes is essential -- but let &apos;s see how different teams are acting .
the average for most of them is about 50 inches , bwl students are creating half of them , lawyers are a little bit more , but not much , kindergarten children are better than adults .
who &apos;s the most successful ?
they &apos;re all engaging questions .
architects and engineers , fortunately .
one foot is the highest thing i &apos;ve seen .
and why ? because they understand triangles and secure self-reinforcing geometrical patterns are the key to build stable structures .
ceos are a little bit about average . but this is where it gets interesting .
if you put an executive administrator on the team , they get significantly better .
it &apos;s incredible . you look around and you see &quot; this team will win . &quot;
you can predict that . why does that happen ?
because they have special skills of processing companions .
they run the process , they understand it .
and this team , which governs and looks at work , will significantly improve the performance of the team .
and you &apos;re going to answer these questions regardless of whether that means doing all the tasks that i admit you and not getting a good note in my class .
specialized skills and processing skills and their combination lead to success .
if you have 10 teams that are typical , you get about six , which have stable structures .
i was trying to do something exciting .
i thought we &apos;d bring the poker effort in a moment .
so i offered a $ 10,000 prize software for the winners .
what do you think happened to these design students ?
what was the result ?
this is what happened . not a team had a stable structure .
if anybody had built a two-inch construction , they would have worn the price home .
so isn &apos;t it interesting that high competition has a strong effect ?
and in fact , they should do that . these are important questions to answer .
we repeated this practice with the same students .
now , what do you think happened ?
now they understood the advantage of prototyping .
so it became the same bad team of one under the best .
they produced the highest construction in the least time .
so there are profound lessons for us , about the nature of drive and success .
you might ask : why would somebody actually spend time creating a marshmallow challenge ?
the reason is , i &apos;m helping create digital tools and processes to help teams create cars , video games and visual effects .
and what the marshmallow challenge does is it helps them identify hidden assumptions .
because , frankly , every project has its own marshmallow .
work -- we &apos;re blessed , as carl pointed out , with the technology that allows us to work every minute from every place on the planet -- to the randolph hotel .
the challenge provides a shared experience , a common language , or basic preservation , to build the right prototype .
and this is the value of this experience , this simple exercise .
and those of you who are interested in it can visit marshmallowchallenge.com .
it &apos;s a blog where you can see the marshmallows building .
there &apos;s a step-by-step manual there .
they find crazy examples from all over the world , like people are optimizing and refining the system .
there are also world record .
and the basic lesson , i think , is that construction is actually a commitment sport .
it demands that we all focus our senses on the task , and that we use our thinking optimally , like our emotions and our actions , in the challenge that we face .
and sometimes a little prototype of that experience is all it takes to take us from a &quot; uh-oh &quot; to a ta-da &quot; moment .
there &apos;s a corner , by the way , that i &apos;m not going to tell you about , where the wirelesslan works .
and that can make a big difference .
thank you .
let &apos;s pretend that we have a machine here .
a big machine , a cool , ted machine , and that &apos;s a time machine .
and everyone in this room has to go in .
and you can go to the past , you can go to the future ; you can &apos;t stay here and now .
and i wonder what they would choose , because i &apos;ve often asked my friends this question lately , and they all wanted to go to the past .
i don &apos;t know . they wanted to go back in time before there were cars or twitter or &quot; america is looking for the superstar . &quot;
i don &apos;t know .
i &apos;m convinced that somehow you &apos;ve moved to nostalgia , to wonder .
and then you would suddenly realize what it would be like if you couldn &apos;t speak your own language .
i &apos;m not going to tell you because i want to use it .
and i understand that .
i &apos;m not part of this group , i have to say .
i don &apos;t want to go into the past , and that &apos;s not because i &apos;m an adventurer .
it &apos;s because possibilities don &apos;t go back on this planet , they go forward .
so i want to go into this machine , and i want to go into the future .
this is the greatest time we &apos;ve ever had on this planet , no matter what scale they &apos;re doing : health , wealth , mobility , opportunities , declining disease rates .
there was never a time like this before .
my great-grandparents died when they were 60 .
my grandparents urged this number to 70 .
my parents are the 80 on the heels .
so what it means is that incredible freedom of choice we have in terms of making decisions about work , over and over again , whether we should work or should not work .
so there should be a nine at the beginning of my death .
but it &apos;s not even about people like us , because this is a bigger thing than that .
a child born in new delhi today can expect to live as long as the richest man in the world 100 years ago .
think about it . this is an incredible fact .
and why is that ?
smallpox . smallpox killed billions of people on the planet .
they &apos;ve reformed the demographics of the earth in a way that no war has ever done .
they &apos;re gone . they &apos;re gone .
we forced them . phew .
in the rich world , there are diseases that millions of us have yet to be threatened before only one generation .
we can watch our kids play football , and we have our cell phone on the one hip , and our blackberry on other hips , and probably our laptop on our lap .
diphtry , tubes , child paralysis ...
anyone else knows what that is ?
vaccines , modern medicine , our ability to feed billions of people , are successes of the scientific method .
and from my point of view , the scientific method of trying to do things is see if it works , it changes , if it doesn &apos;t , one of the greatest achievements in humanity .
so that &apos;s the good news .
unfortunately , this is all good news , because there are a few other problems , and they &apos;ve been mentioned a lot .
and one of them is that , despite all of our achievements , a billion people in the world go to bed hungry every day .
that number goes up , and it goes up very quickly , and that &apos;s embarrassing .
and not only that , we &apos;ve used our imagination to devastate this world thoroughly .
drinking water , ancient land , rainforests , oil , gas : they disappear , and soon , and if we don &apos;t innovate out of this chaos , we will disappear .
and even though they &apos;re all turned off , every minute we watch our child mutilating a football game , we also ask ourselves , &quot; should i take this call ?
so the question is , can we do that ? i think we can do that .
i think it &apos;s clear that we can produce food that will feed billions of people without raping the land that they live on .
i think we can supply this world with energy that doesn &apos;t destroy them at the same time .
i really believe that , and no , that &apos;s not a wonder thinking .
but this one keeps me awake at night -- one of the things that keeps me awake at night -- we &apos;ve never needed scientific progress as it is now , never .
and we &apos;ve never been able to use it reasonably , as we can today .
we &apos;re at the threshold to amazing , amazing events in many areas , and yet i really think that we need to go back hundreds and 300 years before the enlightenment to find a time when we &apos;ve been fighting progress , where we &apos;ve been doing more things about these things , more fronts than now .
people are wrapping up in their faith , and it &apos;s so tight that you can &apos;t free them .
not even the truth will liberate it .
and listen , everybody has a right to their opinion , even a right to their opinion for progress .
should i answer this email ? should i write this letter ? &quot;
but you know what they &apos;re not right about ?
they don &apos;t have a right to their own facts . &apos; sorry , they don &apos;t .
and it took me a while to figure that out .
about a decade ago , i wrote an article about vaccinations for &quot; the new yorker , &quot; a little article .
and i was amazed to repel to resistance in the end of what is the most effective thing in health care in the history of humanity .
i didn &apos;t know what to do , so i just did whatever i do , i wrote an article , and i went on .
and soon after that , i wrote an article about genetically engineered food .
the same thing , just bigger .
people were playing crazy .
so i also wrote an article about this , and i couldn &apos;t understand why people thought this was &quot; frankenfood , &quot; why they believed that molecules , in a certain way , rather than a random way , were going to push a handle on the field of nature .
and even though the answer to the question &quot; no , &quot; it certainly will be your experience of the football game of your child in a very different way than it would have been .
but you know , i do what i do . i wrote the article , i kept on going .
i mean , i &apos;m a journalist .
we type in , we pass in , we eat , that &apos;s okay .
but i was worried about these articles , and i couldn &apos;t figure out why , and i finally figured it out .
and that &apos;s because these fanatics that made me crazy were not fanatics at all .
these were thoughtful people , educated people , decent people .
they were just like the people in this room .
and that got me so confused ...
but then i thought , you know what , let &apos;s face it .
we got to a point where we don &apos;t have the same relationship to progress as we used to .
everywhere we look , big things and small things , material things and lifestyle , life is a question of choice .
we talk about it twenty .
we talk about it ironically , with little leadership marks , &quot; progress . &quot;
okay , there are reasons , and i think we know what the reasons are .
we &apos;ve lost trust in institutions , in authority , and sometimes in science itself , and there &apos;s no reason why it shouldn &apos;t be that way .
you can just call a few names , and people will understand .
chernobyl , bhopal , the challenger , vioxx , weapons of mass destruction , the u.s. presidential election in 2000 .
i mean , you know , you can choose your own list .
there are questions and problems with the people that we thought were always right . so be skeptical .
ask questions , ask for evidence , ask for evidence .
take nothing for granted .
and the world that we lived in looked like this .
but here &apos;s the thing : if you get evidence , you have to take this evidence , and we &apos;re not good at it .
and i can say that , for the reason , that we now live in an epidemic of fear , as i &apos;ve never seen it , and hopefully i &apos;ll never see it again .
about 12 years ago , a story was published , a horrible story that connected the autism epidemic to the maser , mumps , and roman vaccine .
very frightening .
studies were done to see if that was true .
studies should be done ; that &apos;s a serious issue .
the data came in .
the data came in from the united states , from england , from sweden , from canada , and they were all the same , no correlation , no connection , no one .
it doesn &apos;t make any difference . it doesn &apos;t make any difference , because we believe in anecdotes , we think what we see , what we think we see , what causes us to really feel .
we don &apos;t believe in a bunch of documents of a government agency that gives us data , and i understand that , i think we all do .
i mean , there were some choices , but not all of them was a question of choice .
but you know what ?
the result of that was catastrophic .
catastrophic because of this fact : the united states is one of the only countries in the world where the immunization is falling for masses .
this is scandalous , and we should be ashamed .
it &apos;s terrible .
what happened was that we could do that .
well , i understand that . i do .
because does anybody here have masses ?
has one in the audience ever seen anyone die of masses ?
it doesn &apos;t happen very often .
and the world that we live in now looks like this .
it doesn &apos;t happen in this country at all , but 160,000 times in the world last year .
that &apos;s a lot of deaths from masers , 20 per hour .
but because this hasn &apos;t happened here , we can deny it , and people like jenny mccarthy can walk around and preach messages of fear and illiteracy from platforms like oprah and larry king live .
and they can do that because they don &apos;t connect cause and correlation .
they don &apos;t understand that these things seem to be the same , but almost never are the same .
and this is something that we need to learn very quickly .
this guy was a hero , jonas salk .
he liberated us from one of humanity &apos;s worst minds .
no fear , no source , child paralysis , phew , disappeared .
the guy in the middle is not so much .
so today , i want to take you on a journey through the ethnosphere , a short journey across the ethnosphere to try to make you understand what actually has been lost .
and the question is , is that good news or bad news ?
it &apos;s called paul offit .
he &apos;s just developed a rotavirus vaccine with a few other people .
it can save the lives of 4,000 , 500,000 children a year in the developing world .
pretty good , right ?
well , that &apos;s good , besides paul walking around and talking about vaccines and saying how valuable they are , and people should just stop jamming .
and that &apos;s what he actually says .
so paul is a terrorist .
when paul talks in a public audience , he can &apos;t say without armed guards .
he gets phone calls at home because people like to tell him that they know where his kids go to school .
and why ? because paul made a vaccine .
the answer is &quot; yes . &quot;
i don &apos;t need to say that , but vaccines are essential .
if you take them away , you go back to the diseases , terrible diseases , and that &apos;s what &apos;s happening .
we now have masses in this country .
and this is going to get worse , and pretty soon children are going to die again , because that &apos;s just a question of numbers .
and they &apos;re not just going to die of masses .
what about childhood paralysis ? let &apos;s take that . why not ?
a commilitary of mine wrote me a few weeks ago , and she said , &quot; i think i &apos;m a little too shrimp . &quot;
no one ever said that before .
she wouldn &apos;t vaccinate her child against child paralysis . no way .
fine .
we all know what &apos;s good about it , so i &apos;m going to get about what &apos;s bad about it .
why ? because we don &apos;t have a child paralysis . and you know what ?
we didn &apos;t have a child paralysis yesterday in this country .
today , i don &apos;t know , maybe somebody in lagos got on an airplane this morning , and they &apos;re flying to los angeles , right now , he &apos;s over ohio .
and in a few hours , he lands and he rents a car , and he comes to long beach , and he &apos;s going to visit one of these fantastic ted dinner tonight .
and he doesn &apos;t know that he &apos;s infected with a paralyzing disease , and we don &apos;t know , because that &apos;s how the world works .
this is the planet that we live on . don &apos;t pretend it &apos;s not .
we love to wrap up in lies . we love that .
did you take all your vitamins this morning ?
echinacea , a little antioxidancy that helps you with the jumps .
i know you did that because half of americans do it every day .
all of these choices have two effects , two negative effects on people .
they take this stuff , and they take alternative cure , and it doesn &apos;t matter how often we find out they &apos;re useless .
the data shows that all the time .
they evaporate their urine . that &apos;s all they do .
that &apos;s okay , you want to pay 28 billion dollars for dark urine .
i totally agree with you .
dark urine . dark .
why do we do that ? why do we do that ?
well , i think i understand -- we hate the pharmaceutical industry .
we hate too much government . we don &apos;t have trust in the system .
and we shouldn &apos;t . our healthcare system is mies .
one effect , paradoxically , is that it &apos;s paralyzed instead of liberating .
it &apos;s cruel to millions of people .
it &apos;s absolutely amazingly cold and soulful to ourselves that can afford it .
so we &apos;re going away from it , and where are we going ?
we &apos;re going into the arms of the placebo industry .
that &apos;s great . i love the placebo industry .
but , you know , this is really a serious issue , because this stuff is crap , and we spend billions of dollars on it .
and i have all kinds of little props here .
none of them -- gingko , fraud , echinacea , fraud , acai , i don &apos;t even know what that is , but we spend billions of dollars on it , it &apos;s fraud .
and you know what ? when i say that , people scream at me and say , &quot; what do you care about ? let people do what they want .
that &apos;s how you feel good . &quot;
with so many options that you can choose , it &apos;s very hard for people to even decide .
and you know what ? they &apos;re wrong .
because i don &apos;t care whether it &apos;s the minister of health , who says , &quot; well , i &apos;m not going to take the evidence of my experts on mammography , &quot; or any cancer agent who wants to treat his patients with caffe-procedure .
if you go on this path , where belief and magic replace evidence and science , you get to a place where you don &apos;t want to be .
they get to thabo mbeki in south africa .
he killed 400,000 of his people because he insisted that red beds , bone smoke and lemon oil are much more effective than antiretroviral drugs that we know can slow down the course of aids .
hundreds of thousands of unnecessary deaths in a country that is scoured worse than any other one of these diseases .
don &apos;t tell me that these things don &apos;t have consequences .
they have them . they always have them .
now , the most brainless epidemic we &apos;re in is this absurd struggle between the advocates genetically engineered food and the bio-elite .
this is an idiotic debate . it has to stop .
i &apos;m going to give you another dramatic example of this , a study of investment in volunteer retirement care .
it &apos;s a debate about words , about metaphors .
this is ideology , not science .
everything we eat , every friction of rice , every branch of petersilence , every rose coat , was changed by people .
you know , there were no mandarins in paradise .
there were no cantaloupe-melons .
there were no christmas trees . we did all this .
we &apos;ve done it in the last 11,000 years .
and some of it worked and some of it didn &apos;t .
we got rid of what didn &apos;t work .
now we can make it more specific . and of course , there are risks , but we can do something like vitamin a in rice , and the stuff can help millions of people extend their lives .
a colleague of mine had access to investment records of vanguard , the giant fund society of about a million employees and about 2,000 different jobs .
you don &apos;t want to do that ?
i have to say , i don &apos;t understand .
we reject genetically modified food .
why do we do that ?
now , what i hear all the time is too many chemicals , pesticides , hormones , monoculture , we don &apos;t want huge fields with one thing , that &apos;s wrong .
we don &apos;t want companies to patent life .
we don &apos;t want companies to own seeds .
and you know what my answer to all of this is ?
yes , they &apos;re right . let &apos;s fix that .
it &apos;s true , we have a huge food problem , but that &apos;s not science .
and what she found was per 10 investment fund that the employer was offering , took the participation by two percent .
this has nothing to do with science .
it &apos;s right , morality , patent stuff .
you know that science is not a company .
it &apos;s not a country .
it &apos;s not even an idea ; it &apos;s a process .
it &apos;s a process , and sometimes it works and sometimes it doesn &apos;t work , but the idea that we shouldn &apos;t allow science to do their work because we &apos;re afraid of a real sackle , and it keeps millions of people from blooming .
you know , in the next 50 years , we &apos;re going to have to grow 70 percent more food than we have right now . 70 percent .
this investment in africa in the last 30 years .
shame . shame .
you need that , and we don &apos;t give it to you .
they offer 50 investment fund -- 10 percent less employees participate than if they were only offering five . why ?
and why ? genetically modified food .
we don &apos;t want to encourage people to eat this rotated stuff , like manioc .
manioc is something that eats half a billion people .
it &apos;s kind of like a potato .
it &apos;s just a bunch of calories . it &apos;s mies .
it has no nutrients , it has no protein , and scientists are building all this in it .
and then people could eat , and they wouldn &apos;t get blind .
you wouldn &apos;t starve , and you know what ?
that would be nice . it wouldn &apos;t be chez panisse , but it would be beautiful .
and all i can say about this is , why do we fight this ?
we &apos;re all born . we bring children to the world .
now , there are some of us who kind of forget that when i say &quot; different possibilities of being , &quot; i really mean different possibilities of being .
because it &apos;s 50 investment funds that are chosen , it &apos;s so hard to decide which one to choose that they &apos;re going to put it on tomorrow .
i mean , let &apos;s ask ourselves : why do we fight this ?
because we don &apos;t want to move genes around ?
it &apos;s not about pushing genes around . it &apos;s not about chemicals .
it &apos;s not about our ridiculous passion for hormones , our persistence for greater food , better food , unique food .
it &apos;s not about rice krispies , it &apos;s about keeping people alive , and it &apos;s going to be time to understand what that means .
because you know what ?
if we don &apos;t do that , if we keep going like we &apos;ve been guilty of something that i think we don &apos;t want to be guilty of , high-tech colonialism .
there &apos;s no other description of what &apos;s happening here .
it &apos;s selfish , it &apos;s ugly , it &apos;s not worthy , and we really have to stop it .
so after this incredibly funny conversation , you might want to say , &quot; do you still want to go into this ridiculous time machine and go into the future ? &quot;
and then tomorrow , and then tomorrow , and tomorrow , and tomorrow , and tomorrow , of course , never comes .
anyway . i certainly want that .
right now , it &apos;s in the present , but we have an incredible opportunity .
we can put this time machine on everything we want .
we can move them where we want to move them , and we &apos;re going to move them where we want to .
we have to have these conversations , and we have to think , but as we get into the time machine , and as we go into the future , we &apos;re going to be happy to have done that .
i know that we can , and as far as i &apos;m concerned , that &apos;s something that the world needs now .
thank you .
thank you .
for some time , i &apos;ve been interested in the placebo effect , and it may seem strange that a magician is interested in it , unless you look at it like me , &quot; a deception that will become real if somebody believes it hard enough . &quot;
in other words , sugar pills have shown a measurable effect in some studies , the placebo effect , just because the person thinks what &apos;s going on with it is a pharmaceutical or a kind of ... in pain management , for example , if the patient only believes in it , there &apos;s a measurable effect in the body called the placebo effect .
you know , it &apos;s not just that people have to eat dog food when they retire , because they don &apos;t have enough money to go back , it also means that decisions are so hard that they miss large investment offers from their employers .
a deception becomes a real thing , because somebody perceives it that way .
now , in order for us to understand each other , i want to show you a fundamental , very simple magic trick .
and i &apos;m going to show you how it works . this is a trick that &apos;s been in every magic book for children since the 1950s .
i learned it from the cub scout magic of the path finder in the 1970s .
i &apos;m going to do it for you and then explain it .
and then i &apos;m going to explain why i explain it .
so , look what happens .
the knife you can study ; my hand that you can study .
i &apos;m just going to keep the knife in my fault like this .
i &apos;m pushing my sleeve back .
through the non-participation , they give up to 5,000 u.s. dollars a year on the employer who would be happy to reproduce their contribution .
and to make sure that nothing disappears in my sleeve or comes out of it , i &apos;m just going to push my wrist right here .
in this way , you can see that nothing is moving at any time , and as long as i &apos;m pressing here , nothing can go in my sleeve or come out .
and the goal is very simple .
i &apos;m going to open my hand up , and hopefully , if everything goes well , the knife is captured by my mere physical magnetism .
it &apos;s actually so solid in its place that i can shake it without the knife falling down .
nothing goes into my sleeve , or comes out , no trickster , and you can study everything .
ta-da !
now , this is a trick that i often teach young kids who are interested in magic , because you can learn a lot about deception , if you look more closely , even though it &apos;s a very simple trick .
probably many of you in this room know this trick .
here &apos;s how it works .
paralysis is a consequence of too many choices .
i hold the knife in my hand .
i &apos;m saying that i &apos;m going to wrap my wrist up to make sure that nothing goes away in my sleeve or comes out , and that &apos;s a lie .
the reason i hold my wrist is because it &apos;s the actual secret of illusion .
because the moment i turn my hand away from you , so you can see it from the back , this finger moves , my index finger , just from where it was , into a position where it was so extended .
great trick ?
there &apos;s somebody sitting in the back who had no childhood .
so , it &apos;s here . right .
and when i turn around , the finger changes its position .
and now you could talk about why this is a deception , why you don &apos;t realize that there are only three fingers down here : because the mind and the way it process information doesn &apos;t count it , one , two , three , but you see it as a group .
but that &apos;s really not what this is about , and then i open my hand .
and i think it makes the world look like this .
of course , it &apos;s held there , but not through the magnetism of my body , but through a trick , through my index finger , which is now there .
and when i close my hand , the same thing happens by turning back , it &apos;s hidden by this movement that the finger moves back again .
i take this hand away . and here &apos;s the knife .
this trick you can demonstrate to your friends and neighbors . thank you .
now , what does this have to do with the placebo effect ?
a year ago or so , i read a study that really blew my mind .
i &apos;m not a doctor or a researcher , and so that was an amazing thing for me .
it turns out that if you offer a placebo in the form of a white pill , in the form of an aspirin tablet , it &apos;s just a round , white pill that has a certain measurable effect .
but if you change the shape in which you give placebo , for example , in a smaller pill , and you color those blue and shape a letter on it , it &apos;s actually more effective .
and this , although none of these are pharmaceutical -- they &apos;re just sugar pills .
you really want to make the decision right if it &apos;s for all eternity , right ?
but a white pill is not as good as a blue pill .
what ? that really freaked me out .
but it turns out that that &apos;s not all it is .
if you take capsules , they &apos;re even more effective than tablets of any form .
a colored capsule , which is at one end yellow and on the other red , is better than a white capsule .
the dose also matters .
a pill is not as good as three pills a day -- i can &apos;t remember the exact statistics . i &apos;m sorry .
but the key thing is ...
... that the doses also matter .
and the shape plays a role .
they don &apos;t want to choose the wrong investment fund , or even the wrong salatdressing .
and if you want to have the ultimate placebo effect , you have to reach the needle .
right ? a syringe with an ineffective -- a few milliliters of an ineffective substance that you inject to a patient .
this creates a very strong picture in mind . it &apos;s much stronger than a white pill .
this chart is really -- i &apos;m going to show you another time when we have a projector .
so the fact is that the white pill doesn &apos;t work as well as the blue pill that doesn &apos;t work as well as a capsule that doesn &apos;t work as well as the needle .
and none of it has any really pharmaceutical property , and it &apos;s just our belief in it , which is a stronger effect in us .
i wanted to know if i could use this idea for a magic trick .
i &apos;m going to take something that &apos;s obviously a deception , and let it look real .
now , we know from this study that you have to reach the needle if you want to do it .
this is an eight-inch hutneedle . it &apos;s very , very sharp , and i &apos;m going to sterilize it a little bit first .
so this is the one effect . the other effect is that even if we overcome the paralysis and make a decision , we end less happy with the outcome of choice than if we had the opportunity to choose between less possibilities .
this is really my flesh . it &apos;s not steam &apos;s specialized meat .
this is my skin . this is not a special effect from hollywood .
now i &apos;m going to put this needle in my skin , and i &apos;m going to go through it , until it &apos;s going to stick out on the other side .
if you &apos;re miserable -- if you &apos;re easily falling in the ear -- i showed this to a few friends last night in the hotel room , and some people i didn &apos;t know , and a woman has almost become powerful .
so i propose , if you &apos;re quickly miserable , look away for the next 30 seconds , or , you know , i &apos;m going to do the first hot part here in the back .
you can see it in a second , but you can also see it away if you want .
so , it goes like this , right here where my flesh begins , at the bottom of my arm , i &apos;m just going to make a little bit of a one .
i &apos;m really sorry . is it crazy ?
and now just a little bit through my skin and out on the other side .
now we &apos;re actually in the same situation that we had at the knife .
and there are several reasons for this .
about it .
but now you can &apos;t count my fingers , right ?
so , i &apos;m going to show you . this is one , two , three , four , five .
well , yeah .
i know what people think when they see that .
they say , &quot; okay , it &apos;s not so stupid , and it &apos;s going through the skin , just to give us a few minutes . &quot;
well , then i &apos;m going to show you .
what does this look like ? pretty good .
yeah , i know .
and people in the back say , &quot; okay . i didn &apos;t really see this . &quot;
for example , take this kid from the barasana in the northwest of the amazon , the people of the anakonda , believe that they were mythologically coming up from the east in the belly of sacred snakes .
one of them is required by the great selection of different salatdressings , when you buy one , and it &apos;s not perfect -- and what salatdressing is already perfect ? it &apos;s easy to imagine that you could have made a different decision that would have been better . and what happened is this image-imagined alternative leads you to regret the decision , and that regret is negative to the satisfaction that you made from your decision , even if it was a good decision .
the people in the side rooms are coming in now .
let me show you from near .
this is really my skin . this is not a special effect from hollywood .
this is my flesh , and i can turn this around .
i &apos;m sorry . if you get miserable , look away , don &apos;t look .
the people in the back or the ones who see this later on in the video will say , &quot; well , this looks pretty impressive , but if it were real , it would be -- you see , here &apos;s a hole and there , if it really were , it would bleed . &quot;
okay , let me squeeze a little blood for you .
yeah , here it is .
i would normally take the needle out now .
i would clean my arm and show you that there are no wounds .
the more possibilities there are , the easier it is to regret anything , that &apos;s disappointing to the choice that they make .
but i think in this frame here , and with the intention of making something real , i &apos;m just going to leave the needle in there and go off the stage .
we &apos;re going to see ourselves a few more times in the next few days .
i hope you &apos;re looking forward to that . thank you very much .
everybody is talking about happiness today .
i &apos;ve got some people counting the number of books that have been published with &quot; happiness &quot; in the title of the last five years , and they &apos;ve spent about 40 , and there &apos;s a lot more .
there &apos;s a tremendous wave of interest in happiness among researchers .
there &apos;s a lot of happiness coaching .
everybody would like to make people happier .
but despite all this tide of work , there are several cognitive traps that make it almost impossible to think clearly about happiness .
and my talk today is mostly about these cognitive traps .
second , what economists call oppertunity costs .
that &apos;s true of laypeople who think about their own happiness , and it &apos;s true of scientists who think about happiness , because it turns out that we &apos;re just as confused as everyone else .
the first of these fall is a contradiction to admit complexity .
it turns out that the word happiness is just no longer a useful word , because we apply it to too many different things .
i think there &apos;s a particular meaning that we could confine it to , but by and large , that &apos;s something that we will have to give up , and we will have to take the complicated view of what well-being is .
the second trap is a change in experience and memory : it &apos;s basically between being happy in his life and being happy about his life or happy with his life .
and these are two very different concepts , and they &apos;re both put together in the idea of happiness .
and the third is the concentration illusion , and that &apos;s the unfortunate fact that we can &apos;t think about a circumstance that affects well-being without distorting its meaning .
i mean , that &apos;s a real cognitive trap .
there &apos;s just no way to get it right .
now i &apos;d like to start with an example of someone who had a questionnaire session after one of my lectures , who reported a story . &#91; unclear &#93; he said he had heard a symphony , and it was absolutely wonderful music , and at the very end of the recording , there was a terrible circular sound .
dan gilbert made a big point this morning by saying how much the way in which we evaluate things depends on what we compare it .
and then he added , really quite emotional , and it ruined the whole experience .
but it didn &apos;t .
what it had ruined was the memories of the experience .
he had the experience .
he had 20 minutes of glorious music .
they didn &apos;t count because he had stayed with a memory ; the memory was ruined , and the memory was all he had gotten to keep .
what this really tells us is that we could think about ourselves and other people in the sense of two kinds of self .
there &apos;s a living self that lives in the present and knows the present is capable of experiencing the past , but basically only the present .
it &apos;s the living self that the doctor is addressing -- you know , when the doctor says , &quot; is it hurting when i touch you here ? &quot;
and then there &apos;s a remembering self , and the memory itself is the one that counts and sustains the history of our lives , and it &apos;s the one that the doctor addresses by asking the question , &quot; how did you feel in the past time ? &quot;
well , if there &apos;s a lot of alternatives to think about , it &apos;s easy to imagine attractive properties of alternatives that you exclude , that makes you less happy with the alternatives that you &apos;ve chosen .
or , &quot; what was your journey to albania ? &quot; or something like that .
these are two very different units , the living self and the remembering self , and the two of them are part of the confusion of happiness .
well , the memory itself is a storyteller .
and this really starts with a fundamental reaction to our memories -- it starts immediately .
we don &apos;t just tell stories when we make ourselves tell stories .
our memory tells us stories , which means that what we can keep from our experiences is a story .
and let &apos;s start with an example .
there &apos;s an old study .
these are real patients who are in a painful procedure .
i &apos;m not going to go into the details . she &apos;s not painful anymore , but she was painful when this study was done in the 1990s .
here &apos;s an example . for those of you who are not new yorkers , i apologize .
they were asked to report their pain every 60 seconds .
and here are two patients . these are their records .
and they &apos;re asked , &quot; who has suffered more from both ? &quot;
and that &apos;s a very simple question .
patient b clearly suffered more . his gut reflection was longer , and every minute of pain patient a had patient b , and more .
but now there &apos;s another question : &quot; how much did these patients think they were suffering ? &quot;
and here &apos;s a surprise .
and the surprise is that patient a had a much worse memory of the gut reflection than patient b .
the stories of the gut reflections were different , and because a very critical part of the story is how it ends .
and none of these stories are very building or great -- but one of them is clear ...
but here &apos;s what you should have thought .
but one of them is much worse than the other .
and the one that &apos;s worse was where the pain was at the very end of its peak . it &apos;s a bad story .
how do we know that ?
because we asked these people about their gut reflection , and much later , &quot; how bad was the whole thing overall ? &quot;
and she was much worse for a than b in memory .
now , this is a direct conflict between the living self and the remembering self .
from the point of view of the living itself , b clearly had a worse time .
now , what you could do with patient a , and we actually did clinical experiments , and it &apos;s been done , and it works , you could actually expand the gut reflection of patient a by simply letting the tube in without shaking too much on it .
that &apos;s going to lead the patient to suffer , but just a little bit less than before .
and if you do that for a few minutes , you &apos;ve done that the living self of patient a is worse off , and you &apos;ve made the memory that patient a is much better off , because now you &apos;ve given patient a a better story about your experience .
here &apos;s a couple on the hamptons .
what is a story about ?
and that &apos;s true of the stories that memory provides us , and it &apos;s true of the stories that we invent .
so what a story is aimed for is breakthroughs , major moments and ends .
end is very , very important , and in this case , dominated the end .
well , the living itself lives his life continuously .
it has moments of life , one by one .
and you ask , what happens to these moments ?
and the answer is really simple . they &apos;re lost forever .
i mean , most of the moments of our lives -- and i &apos;ve calculated that -- you know , the psychological presence is about three seconds from now , which means , you know , there &apos;s about 600 million of them in a life . there &apos;s about 600,000 in a month . most of them don &apos;t leave any trace .
most of you are completely ignored by the memory itself .
very expensive real estate .
and yet , you get the impression that you should count , that what happened during that moment of life is our lives .
it &apos;s the limited resource that we consume while we &apos;re in this world .
and as we used it would seem to be important , but that &apos;s not the story that keeps the memory for ourselves .
so we have the memory itself and the living itself , and they &apos;re really quite different .
the biggest difference between them is time dealing with them .
from the perspective of the living self , if you have a vacation , and the second week is just as good as the first , then the two-week vacation is twice as good as the weekly vacation .
that &apos;s not how it works for the memory itself .
for the memory itself , a two-week vacation is hardly better than the one-week vacation , because there are no new memories added .
they didn &apos;t change the story .
and in this way , time is actually the critical variable , which is a reminder itself apart from a living self , time has very little impact on this story .
beautiful beach . great day . you have it all for yourself .
well , the memory itself makes more than remembering and telling stories .
it &apos;s actually the one that makes decisions , because if you have a patient who , say , had two gut reflections in two different surgeons and decides which one to choose , then the one who chooses the memory is less bad , and that &apos;s the surgeon who &apos;s going to be selected .
the living self doesn &apos;t have a voice in this election .
in fact , we don &apos;t choose between experiences . we choose between memories of experiences .
and even when we think about the future , we don &apos;t usually think of our future as an experience .
we think about our future as the anticipated memories .
and basically , you can look at this , you know , as a tyranny of the memory itself , and you can think of yourself as one that kind of drags the living itself through experiences that the living itself doesn &apos;t need .
i have the impression that when we make vacation , it &apos;s very often the case , which means we make vacation largely in the service of the memory itself .
and that &apos;s a little bit hard to justify , i think .
i mean , how much do we consume from our memories ?
this is a people who are not cognitively different from the colors blue and green , because the celestial scene is equal to the forest that people depend on .
what could be better ? &quot; damn &quot; the man thinks , &quot; it &apos;s august .
this is one of the explanations that is given for the dominance of the memory itself .
and when i think about it , i think of a vacation that we did a few years ago in antarctica , which was clearly the best vacation i &apos;ve ever had , and i think relatively often in relation to how many times i think of other vacations .
and i &apos;ve probably raised from my memories of this three-week journey , and i would say for about 25 minutes in the last four years .
now , if i had ever opened the folder with the 600 pictures in it , i would have spent another hour .
well , that &apos;s three weeks , and that &apos;s at least one and a half hours .
there seems to be a disagreement .
now , i may be a little extreme , you know , in how little appetite i have on the pouring of memories , but even if you make more of them , there &apos;s a real question . why do we give memories so much weight in the trajectory of the weight that we experience ?
so i want you to think about a thought experiment .
imagine your next vacation , you know , at the end of the vacation , all of your images are devastated , and you get an amnestic drug , so you &apos;re not going to remember anything .
well , would you choose the same vacation ?
everybody in my manhattan neighborhood is gone .
and if you took a different vacation , there &apos;s a conflict between your two kinds of self , and you have to think about how you decide that conflict , and that &apos;s really not obvious at all , because if you think about time , you get an answer , and if you think about memories , you might get a different answer .
why we choose the vacation that we choose is a problem that we have with a choice between the two species of self .
well , the two kinds of self are the two terms of happiness .
there are actually two concepts of happiness that we can apply , one per self .
so you can ask : how happy is the living self ?
and then you would ask : how happy are the moments in the life of the living self ?
and they &apos;re all -- happiness for moments is a fairly complicated process .
what are the emotions that can be measured ?
and , by the way , we are now able to get a pretty good idea of the happiness of the living itself over time .
if you ask about the happiness of the memory itself , it &apos;s a very different thing .
i could park right in front of my house . &quot;
it &apos;s not about how happy a person lives .
it &apos;s about how satisfied or delighted the person is when that person thinks about their lives .
very different terms .
anyone who doesn &apos;t distinguish these terms will mess up the exploration of happiness , and i &apos;m part of a lot of researchers about well-being , who have been exploring happiness in a long way .
the distinction between the happiness of the living self and the happiness of the memory itself has been recognized in the last few years , and now you &apos;re trying to measure the two separate .
the gallup organization has a global survey where more than half a million people have been asked questions about what they think about their lives and their experiences , and there have been other efforts in the direction .
so in the last few years , we &apos;ve started to learn about the happiness of the two kinds of self .
and the main lesson that i think we &apos;ve learned is that they &apos;re really different .
you can know how happy someone is with his life , and that really doesn &apos;t teach you much about how happy he lives and vice versa .
just to give you a sense of the correlation , the correlation is about .5 .
and he spends two weeks from the thought that he missed the possibility of having a great parking lot day after day .
what that means is that if you met someone , and you would tell them , oh , his father is a two-meter man , how much would you know about his size ?
well , you would know something about its size , but there &apos;s a lot of uncertainty .
they have so much uncertainty .
if i tell you that somebody has ordered their life as eight on a scale of 10 , they have a lot of uncertainty about how happy he is with his living self .
so the correlation is low .
we know something about what determines the happiness of the happiness self .
we know that money is very important , goals are very important .
we know that happiness is mainly about being satisfied with people we like to spend time with people we like .
there are other pleasures , but that &apos;s dominant .
so if you want to maximize the happiness of the two kinds of self , you &apos;ll end up doing very different things .
oppertunity costs reduce the happiness that we get through our choice , even though what we &apos;ve chosen is fantastic .
the conclusion of what i &apos;ve said here is that we really shouldn &apos;t think of happiness as a replacement for well-being .
it &apos;s a completely different term .
well , very briefly , another reason that we can &apos;t clearly think about happiness is that we don &apos;t pay attention to the same things when we think about life , and when we actually live .
so if you ask the simple question of how happy people in california are , they &apos;re not going to get the correct answer .
if you ask that question , you think that people in california have to be happier if you live in ohio , say .
and what happens is that when you think about life in california , think about the difference between california and other places , and that difference is , say , in climate .
well , it turns out that climate is not very important for the living itself , and it &apos;s not even very important for the thoughtful self that decides how happy people are .
now , because the thoughtful self is responsible , you can end up -- some people could end up moving to california .
and it &apos;s kind of interesting to track what happens to people who move to california in hope of getting happier .
well , your living self is not going to be happier .
and the more choices there are to choose , the more attractive properties of this choice are in the oppertunity costs .
we know that .
but one thing will happen . you &apos;ll think you &apos;re happier , because if you think about it , you &apos;ll be reminded of how terrible the weather was in ohio , and you &apos;ll feel that you &apos;ve made the right decision .
it &apos;s very difficult to think clearly about well-being , and i hope i &apos;ve given you a sense of how difficult it is .
thank you .
thank you . i have a question for you .
thank you .
now , when we were talking about phone a few weeks ago , they told me that there was a pretty interesting result that came out of this gallup survey .
is this something that you can participate in , because you have a few minutes left ?
daniel kahneman : sure .
i think the most interesting thing that we found in the gallup survey is a number that we absolutely didn &apos;t expect to find .
here &apos;s another example .
we found this in terms of the happiness of the living self .
when we looked at how feelings varied with income .
and it turns out that under an income of 60,000 dollars a year , for americans , and that &apos;s a very large sample of americans , about 600,000 , but it &apos;s a large representative sample , under a $ 600,000 income per year .
60,000 .
dk : 60,000 .
60,000 dollars a year , people are unhappy , and they become increasingly less happy as they get poorer .
we get an absolutely flat line on that .
i mean , i rarely saw flat lines .
what happens is that money doesn &apos;t get you an experience of happiness , but that lack of money certainly gets you miserable , and we can measure that misery very , very clearly .
in the sense of the other self , the memory itself , you get a different story .
now , this cartoon makes some statements .
the more money you make , the more happy you are .
that &apos;s not true of emotions .
but danny , in the entire american pursuit , is about life , freedom , the pursuit of happiness .
if people took this finding seriously , i mean , it all seems to turn it upside down , everything we think , for example , in terms of tax politics and so on .
is there a chance that politicians , in general , that the country would take a finding like the seriously and make a policy based on it ?
dk : you know , i think there &apos;s recognition for the role of research on happiness in politics .
the recognition will be slow in the united states , not a question , but in the united kingdom it &apos;s happening right now , and in other countries it &apos;s happening .
people are about to recognize that they should think about happiness when they think about politics .
it &apos;s going to take a while , and people will discuss whether they want to explore experience happiness , or whether they want to explore life review , so we need to have this discussion pretty soon .
how to increase happiness is very different depending on how you think , and whether you think about the memory itself , or whether you think about the living itself .
he makes a statement about living in the present , and maybe doing things about it slowly .
this is going to affect politics , i think , in the coming years .
in the united states , you &apos;re struggling to measure the experience of the population .
that , i think , will be part of the national statistics in the next decade or two .
well , it seems to me , this topic is going to be , or at least , the most interesting political debate to follow over the next few years .
thank you very much for the invention of behavioral economics .
thank you , danny kahneman .
i &apos;m jane mcgonigal . i &apos;m designing computer games .
i &apos;ve been developing online games for 10 years now , and my goal for the next decade is to make it as easy to save the world in reality as it is in online games .
i have a plan for that . i want to convince more people , including all of you , to spend more time playing bigger and more fun games .
we &apos;re currently spending three billion hours a week playing with online games .
but one important point that he does is that whenever you choose to do one thing , you don &apos;t choose to do other things .
some of you may think , &quot; that &apos;s a lot of time for games . &quot;
maybe a little too much time when you think about how many problems we have to solve in the real world .
but in fact , my research at the institute of the future is exactly the opposite .
three billion hours a week are not nearly enough to solve the most urgent problems in the world .
in fact , i &apos;m convinced that if we want to survive the next century on this planet , we have to dramatically increase that time .
i calculated that time took 21 billion hours a week to play .
this may first seem a little bit suspicious , so i repeat it so that it can work : if we want to solve problems like hunger , poverty , climate change , global conflict and obesity , i think we need to try to play games online for at least 21 billion hours a week to the end of the next decade .
no , i &apos;m really serious .
why ? this picture pretty much describes why i think games are so essential to the survival of the human species in the future . seriously .
this is a portrait of the photographer phil toledano .
they have a strange language and a marriage manuscript called the linguistic exogamy : you have to marry someone who speaks a different language .
and these other things may have a lot of attractive properties , and it will be what they &apos;re going to do less attractive .
he wanted to capture the feelings when he was playing , so he built a camera in front of the players .
this is one of the classic expressions of play .
if you &apos;re not a player , you might get some of the nuances in this picture .
you probably see this sense of urgency , some fear , but also the external concentration , deep into solving a really difficult problem .
if you play , you can see some nuances here , the eyes that are drawn up , and the mouth is a sign of optimism . the eyebrows are surprise .
this is a player standing on the edge of what &apos;s called an epic victory .
oh , you know that . ok . all right . so we have some players here .
an epic victory is a result that is so highly positive that they didn &apos;t even know that it was possible at all .
it was almost beyond the imagination .
and when you get there , you &apos;re shocked that you &apos;re actually able to do something like this , which is an epic victory .
third , escalation of expectations .
this player is about to be an epic victory .
and this is what we need to see on millions of faces of problem-solvers all over the world when we &apos;re attacking the hurdles of the next century , the face of those who are on the edge of an epic victory .
well , unfortunately , we see this face in real life when we face difficult problems .
i call it the &quot; i &apos;m bad &quot; face in life , and it &apos;s actually my face , you know ? ok ?
this is me doing &quot; in life i &apos;m bad &quot; face .
this is a graffiti in my former home in berkeley , california , where i studied in my ph.d. , why we &apos;re better at play than we are in real life .
this is a problem that a lot of players have .
we think that in reality , we &apos;re not as good as in games .
and i don &apos;t just mean less successfully , even though that &apos;s part of it .
we do more in game worlds . i mean , well , in relation to the motivation of doing something significant , inspired to collaborate with each other .
this struck me when i wanted to exchange my jeans .
if we &apos;re in a game world , i think a lot of us are transforming into our best version , anytime and instantly helpful , trying to solve the problem as long as it takes to try it again after the failure .
and in reality , when we fail , when we hit obstacles , we often feel different .
we feel overwhelmed . we feel overwhelmed . we feel threatened , maybe depressed , frustrated or cynical .
we never have these feelings when we play games , in games , they just don &apos;t exist .
and that &apos;s what i wanted to study as a ph.d. .
why is it impossible in games to think that you couldn &apos;t just achieve everything ?
how can we translate these feelings from play into reality ?
so i looked at games like the world of warcraft , which provides the ideal environment to the collaborative problem solving .
and i &apos;ve found some things that make epic victories possible in online worlds .
so , first of all , when you get in one of these online games , especially in the world of warcraft , there are a lot of different characters who are willing to trust you a full-time mission and immediately .
i &apos;m wearing jeans , almost all the time .
but not just any mission , but a mission that fits perfectly to your current level in the game , right ?
so you can do that .
they never get a job that they can &apos;t solve .
but always at the edge of their capabilities , so they have to get tough , but there &apos;s no unemployment in the world of warcraft .
you don &apos;t sit around and rotate . there &apos;s always something important to do .
and there &apos;s a lot of staff .
wherever you go , hundreds of thousands of people working with you to finish your epic mission .
we don &apos;t have that as easy in real life , that feeling that if you have a fingertip , there &apos;s a staff who are ready .
there &apos;s also this epic story , this inspiring story of why we are there and what we have to do .
and then we get this whole positive feedback .
and there was a time when there was only jeans in one way , and they bought them , and they missed them , they were incredibly uncomfortable , and if they carried them long enough and often washed enough , they started to feel &quot; ok . &quot;
you &apos;ve probably heard of &quot; level up &quot; and &quot; + 1 &quot; or &quot; + 1 intelligence . &quot;
this constant feedback doesn &apos;t exist in real life .
when i leave this stage , i don &apos;t have : + 1 and + 1 crazy idea , + 20 crazy idea .
i don &apos;t get that feedback in real life .
so , the problem of cooperative online worlds like the world of warcraft is that it &apos;s so satisfying to stand on the edge of an epic victory that we prefer to spend our entire time in these game worlds .
they &apos;re just better than reality .
so far , all the world of warfare players together have spent 5.93 million years solving the virtual problems of azeroth .
that &apos;s not necessarily bad .
it may sound bad .
but to see it in context , 5.93 million years ago , our first primate ancestors started to go up .
so , to buy new jeans after many years of wearing the old , and i said , &quot; i &apos;d like to have some jeans , here &apos;s my size . &quot;
so the first exciting primate .
ok , so when we talk about how much time we spend playing , it just makes sense when you think about time in terms of the magnitude of human development , which is extraordinary .
but it turns out , because it turns out , by using all this time on play , we actually change what we can do as people .
we &apos;re developing into collaborative thinking , heartfelt creatures .
that &apos;s the truth . that &apos;s what i believe in .
look at this interesting statistic that has recently been published by a researcher at carnegie mellon university : the average young person in a country today , with strong play culture , spends 10,000 hours with online games to the 21st year of life .
so , 10,000 hours is a very interesting number for two reasons .
first of all , for kids in the united states , 10,080 hours is the exact total thing they spend in school , from the fifth grade to the high school degree -- if you never miss .
so here we have a complete parallel education where young people learn what it means to be a good player , like anything else they learn in school .
and maybe some of you have read the new book by malcolm gladwell , &quot; flying over . &quot;
and the salesman said , &quot; do you want snake , lightweight or wide ?
so you know his theory of success , the theory of the success of 10,000 hours .
it &apos;s based on the great research of cognitive science , that if we spend 10,000 hours studying a random subject up to the 21st year , we become masters in it .
we &apos;re getting so good at doing whatever the most important people in the world .
so , what we have here is a whole generation of young people who are master-players .
so the big question is , &quot; what is the right thing to do ? &quot;
because if we could figure that out , we &apos;d have , in fact , unprecedented human potential before .
so many people now have in the world that spend at least one hour a day playing with online games .
these are our master players . 500 million people who are extraordinarily good at something .
and in the next decade , we have another billion players who are extraordinarily good at whatever .
if you haven &apos;t heard it .
do you want buttons , or do you want to wash stone or acid ?
the game industry is developing consoles that are saving energy and working on mobile devices , rather than the broadband internet , so that players around the world , especially in india , china , brazil , can play online .
you expect an extra billion players in the next decade .
so we have 1.5 billion players in total .
so i started thinking about what it is , what it is that these games make us master .
here are the four things i found . first of all , urgency optimism .
ok , think of this as extreme self-motivation .
urgency optimism is the desire to do something immediately , master a barrier , along with the belief that we have a greened hope for success .
players always believe that an epic victory is possible , and that it &apos;s always worth trying , and that &apos;s the same .
players don &apos;t sit around .
players are masters in the spider of social nets .
do you want holes in jeans ?
there &apos;s a lot of interesting studies that show that we like more after we play with them , even when they defeated us .
the reason for that is that it requires a lot of trust to play a game with somebody .
we trust that somebody spends time with us , that the rules are held , that we have the same goal and we stay with the game .
so playing together enables the growth of ties , trust and each other to grow .
as a result , we build stronger social relations .
happy productivity . fantastic !
you know , there &apos;s a reason why the average word of warcraft players play 22 hours a week , sort of as a part-time job .
the reason is that when we play , we &apos;re actually happier at working hard than when we relax or do nothing .
we know that we work as human beings optimally when we do hard , meaningful work .
and players are always willing to work hard when they get the right job .
you want to cut down very far , cookie , blah , blah , blah ... &quot; and so on , he said .
and finally , epic meaning .
players love to become part of the awe area missions of planetary dimensions .
here &apos;s a backbone formation to put that in the right light , and you probably all know wikipedia , the largest wiki in the world .
the second largest wiki in the world , with almost 80,000 entries , is the world of warcraft wiki .
five million people use it every month .
they &apos;ve put together more information about the world of warcraft on the internet than any other subject in any other wiki in the world .
they create an epic story .
they create an epic source of knowledge about the world of warcraft .
ok , so these are four superpowers that lead to a single result : players are super-powerful , hopeful individuals .
it &apos;s people who believe that as an individual , they can change the world .
all of this is rooted in the mythological past , and the strange thing about these big houses , where , because of the mischehen , six or seven languages , you never hear somebody who learns a language .
my jaw was down , and after i recovered , i said , &quot; i &apos;d like to have the kind that used to be the only species . &quot;
and the only problem is that you think you can change the virtual worlds , but not the real world .
that &apos;s the problem i &apos;m trying to solve .
edward castronova is a folk scientist .
his work is brilliant . he &apos;s looking at why people spend so much time , energy and money in online worlds .
and he says , &quot; we &apos;re not going to witness less than a mass migration in virtual worlds and online game environments . &quot;
and this is from an economist . so he &apos;s logical .
and he says ...
not like me -- i develop games , i &apos;m a little bit excess .
so he says this actually makes sense , because players can do more in online worlds than in real life .
they can make more powerful social bonds than they do in real life . they get more feedback and reward in games than in real life .
he had no idea what that was , so i spent an hour trying to do all these damn jeans , and i left the business -- and i say the truth -- with the best fit jeans i &apos;ve ever had .
so , he says it &apos;s now completely logical that players spend more time in the virtual world than in the real world .
i &apos;ll just agree , that &apos;s logical .
but it &apos;s definitely not an optimal situation .
we need to start turning the real world into a game .
my inspiration comes from an event that goes back 2,500 years .
there are these ancient cubes , out of sheep needs . you know ?
in front of these fantastic game controllers , there were sheep needs .
and these were sort of the first of people to develop toys .
and if you &apos;re familiar with the works of the ancient greek historian herodotus , you may know this story , the story of how and why games were invented .
herodotus has been invented in games , in the kingdom of lyrics during a famine .
i had better . all this choice allowed me to have it better .
there was such a great famine that the king of lydia decided to be a crazy idea .
people suffered . people fought .
it was an extreme situation . you needed an extreme solution .
so they invented , according to herodotus , the cube game , and they agreed with a national strategy , and one day you would eat . the next day you would play .
and they would be so deeply immersed in the box , because games are so fascinating and surrounding us with satisfying , happy productivity that they would forget that there was nothing to eat .
and then the next day you would play , and the next day you would eat .
and according to herodotus , they survived this famine for 18 years by eating and playing the next day .
likewise , i think , let &apos;s use games today .
we use games to escape the suffering of the real world .
we use games to avoid everything that doesn &apos;t work in the real world , everything that &apos;s not satisfying in real life , and we get what we need from the games .
but i felt worse .
but that doesn &apos;t have to be the end .
that &apos;s the exciting thing .
herodotus , after 18 years , famine didn &apos;t get any better , so the king decided to do a last game .
they divided the kingdom into two halves .
they played a cube game , and the victims were allowed to break up to an epic adventure .
they left lydics , and they went to look for a new home , and they were leaving as many people as there was food to survive , and they were looking for the rest of an area where they could thrive .
that sounds crazy , right ?
but the latest dna evidence shows that the etruskers who later formed the roman empire have the same dna as the old lydians .
so scientists recently came to the idea that herodotus &apos;s crazy story was actually true .
and geologists found evidence of a global cooling that took almost 20 years to explain what the famine might explain .
why ? i wrote a whole book to try and explain it to myself .
so this crazy story could be true .
maybe they actually rescued their people by playing , by escaping into games for 18 years , and then having this inception and learning so much about playing with each other that they rescued the whole civilization .
so , we can do that .
we &apos;ve been playing warcraft since 1994 .
this was the first strategies in real time in the world of warcraft series . this was 16 years ago .
they played cube games for 18 years , we &apos;ve been playing warcraft for 16 years .
i &apos;m saying we &apos;re ready for our own epic game .
so , they sent half of their civilization to look for a new world , so i take my 21 billion hours of play a week .
we should think that half of us spend an hour a day playing until we solved the problems of the real world .
i know you &apos;re going to ask , &quot; how do we solve problems in the real world ? &quot; and that &apos;s the question i &apos;ve dedicated my work at the institute for the last few years .
the reason that i felt worse was because of all these available possibilities , my expectations of what makes a good couple of jeans , went up .
we have this banner in our office in palo alto , and it expresses how we should understand the future .
we don &apos;t want to try to predict the future before .
what we want is to create the future .
we want to imagine the best possible outcome , and then we &apos;re going to empower people to put this idea into reality .
we imagine epic victories , and we give people the opportunity to reach them .
i &apos;m going to show you three games that i &apos;ve designed to try and get people to epic victories in their own future .
this is &quot; world without oil . &quot;
the game is from 2007 .
it &apos;s an online game where you have to overcome an oil scarcity .
i had very low expectations . i had no concrete expectations when they were only in one way .
we &apos;ve tested this game with 1,700 players in 2007 , and we &apos;ve been accompaniing them for the last three years since then .
and i can tell you , it was a transformative experience .
nobody wants to change their lives because it &apos;s good for the environment or because we should .
but if you &apos;re in an epic adventure and you say , &quot; we &apos;re running out of oil . &quot;
this is a fascinating adventure that you go to .
find out how they would survive . most of our players have kept the habits that are raised in the game .
so we set ourselves for the next world &apos;s true game a larger , higher goal than just oil scarcity .
we developed the game &quot; superstruct &quot; at the institute for the future .
the starting point is the calculation of a supercomputer that people only have 23 years left on the planet .
this supercomputer is called the global extinction system , of course .
when they came in 100 species , damn well , one of them should have been perfect .
the call for players to sign up , we &apos;ve created almost like a &quot; jerry bruckheimer &quot; movie .
you know jerry bruckheimer movies , where there &apos;s the &quot; dream-team , &quot; and you have the astronauts , the scientist , the ex-strings , and only together you can save the world .
but in our game , instead of just five people , say , everybody is in the dream-team , and it &apos;s our job of creating the future for energy , food , health , security and the future of social justice .
8,000 players played the game for eight weeks .
they found 500 incredibly creative solutions that you can read when you google &quot; superstruct . &quot;
and the last game we bring out on march 3 , which is a game in collaboration with the world bank .
when you finish the game , you get the award from the world bank , &quot; social reform , &quot; graduation in 2010 .
we &apos;re working with universities across sub-saharan africa and inviting them to learn social redesign .
we have a comic book . we have &quot; level high &quot; for local understanding , knowledge connectivity , sustainability , vision and ingenuity .
i &apos;d like to invite you all to share this game with young people all over the world , especially in developing areas that benefit from being able to imagine their own social enterprises to save the world .
and what i got was good , but it wasn &apos;t perfect .
i &apos;m going to end now .
i want to ask you something .
what do you think happens next ?
we have all these fantastic players , we have games that show us what we can do , but we haven &apos;t saved the real world yet .
well , i hope you &apos;ll agree with me that players are human resources that we can use to work in real life , and that games have a big meaning for change .
we have all these superpowers , happy productivity , the ability to get tight social networks , urgency optimism and demand for epic meaning .
i really hope that we play meaningful games together to survive another century on this planet .
and i hope you &apos;re going to design and play with me like this .
when i look forward to the next decade , i &apos;m sure at two things : that we can create any imaginable future , and that we can play all kinds of games .
so i say , let the games that change the world .
and so i compared what i had gotten to what i expected , and what i had was disappointing compared to what i expected .
thank you .
i &apos;d like to tell you something that i noticed a few months ago when i was writing an italian wired article .
i always picked up my synonymous dictionary when i was writing , but i was already ready to work on the text , and i realized that i &apos;ve never looked in my life , which means &quot; disabled . &quot;
i &apos;m going to read you the post .
&quot; disabled , &quot; adjectively : &quot; curved , helpless , useless , destroyed , mutilated , wounded , aligned , latin , separated , trusted , served , weakened , impotent , paralyzed , paralyzed , handicapt senil , age-weak , pulled out of traffic , repaired , done , broken , counted , injured , injured , injured , injured , useless and weak .
antonyme : healthy , strong , powerful . &quot;
i read this list to a friend loud , and i had to laugh , it was so ridiculous , but i just came up to &quot; aligned , &quot; and i couldn &apos;t talk further , and i had to stop reading , and i had to pick up the first time after this overwhelming vocabulary and the emotional shock associated with it .
of course , this was a great , old synonymous dictionary , and i just thought that the copy must be pretty old .
but in fact , it was a copy of the early &apos; 80s when i was just starting with elementary school , and starting to build and form my self-image outside my family environment , also in terms of other children and the rest of the world around me .
and thank god i didn &apos;t use a synonymous dictionary at the time .
you just listen and then you start talking .
adding opportunities to people &apos;s lives is inevitably increasing people &apos;s expectations about how well these possibilities are going to be .
if i took this post seriously , i would be born into a world that someone like me would perceive as a person whose life can &apos;t be positive in any way , but today i &apos;m celebrated for the odds and adventures that i &apos;ve experienced .
so i immediately called myself the online copy of 2009 , and i expected me to find a more appealing contribution here .
here &apos;s the updated version of this post .
unfortunately , it &apos;s not much better .
in particular , i &apos;ve been struck by the last two words under &quot; close antonyms &quot; and &quot; healthy . &quot;
but it &apos;s not just about the words .
it &apos;s about what we think about the people we describe with these words .
it &apos;s about the values that are in these words , and how we construct these values .
our language affects our thinking and how we see the world and the people around us .
many ancient societies , including the greeks and the romans , have really believed that the language of a flight has a great force , because what you say out loud can also manifest itself .
and this leads to less happiness with the results , even though the results are good .
so , what do we really want to manifest -- a disabled person or a powerful person ?
just to call a person mindlessly as a child , could be enough to constrain them and constrain them ideas .
wouldn &apos;t it be more beautiful to open them up doors ?
a person who opened doors for me was my pediatrician at the a.i. dupont institute in wilmington in delaware .
it &apos;s called dr. pizzutillo . it &apos;s an italo american whose name , as you can imagine , most americans couldn &apos;t speak correctly , so he was always called dr. p.
and dr. p. always wore very colorful flies and was just created for the work with kids .
i found the time i spent in this hospital just great -- except for my physical therapy .
i had to do individual practice , seemingly infinite times , with these thickness , elastic bands -- in different colors -- you know , to build my leg muscles , and i hated these bands more than anything else . i hated them . i flooded them . i hated them .
and imagine i &apos;ve even negotiated with dr. p. as a five-year-old child and tried to stop those practices , naturally without success .
and one day he was watching me in one of my practices -- these exercise was just tiring and ruthless -- and he said to me , &quot; wow , aimee , you &apos;re such a strong , powerful and young girl , you &apos;re going to tear down one day of these bands .
nobody in the world of marketing knows this , because if you did , you all don &apos;t know what this is about .
and if you do it , i &apos;ll give you a hundred dollars . &quot;
and of course , this was just a simple trick by dr. p. , so that i did the practices that i didn &apos;t want to do , with the prospect that getting the richest five year-old girl in the hospital in the second floor , but he actually got me to see my daily practice horror with new eyes , so it became a new and promising experience .
and i wonder today how much his vision of me , as a strong and powerful young girl , shaped my self-image , and i was able to think of myself as a nature of strong , powerful and atlethic man .
this is just one example of how many adults in power positions can stimulate the imagination of a child .
but as the examples that have been quoted from the synonymous dictionaries , our language doesn &apos;t allow us to imagine something that we would all wish : to allow anyone to see themselves as a powerful person .
our language is based on the social change that , in many cases , has been caused by a technological change .
of course , from the medical standpoint , you can say that my legs , the laser surgery for visually impaired , knee from titan and artificial hip joints for aging bodies , which allow people to really use all of their possibilities and develop beyond the boundaries that have set them their natural destiny , not to speak at all , of social networking platforms , allow people to have their own identity , define themselves in their own way , and orient themselves to groups around the world that they choose themselves .
so maybe this technological change is more clear than ever , that there &apos;s always been a different truth , which is that every human being in society can give something special and very powerful , and that the human ability to adapt is our biggest plus .
the human ability to adapt -- that &apos;s an interesting story , because people are asking me over and over again to tell you how i deal with widricies , and i &apos;m going to admit to you something : that sentence has never fit for me , and i &apos;ve always felt very uncomfortable with answering the questions of people , and i think gradually understand why .
this phrase of dealing with adversity lives on the idea that success or happiness depends on mastering a challenge without being impacted by the experience that i had , as if my life had been so successful , because i could avoid the possible fall of a life with a prosthetic , or whatever people perceive me with my disability .
the truth is more like this .
but the truth is that we are changing , of course , we are shaped by the challenge , whether it &apos;s physical , emotional or even both .
and i &apos;m saying that &apos;s good .
adversity is not an obstacle that we have to embrace in order to deal with our lives better .
adversity is just in our lives .
and i tend to see adversity as my shadow .
sometimes i realize it &apos;s very present , sometimes it &apos;s hardly seen , but it &apos;s constantly with me .
and i don &apos;t want to do that in any case , or the impact of the human fight .
there are adversity and challenges in life , and they &apos;re just too real , and each person is going to do it differently , but the question is not whether we deal with adversity or not , but how we deal with it .
so not only are we responsible for preserving the people that we love to preserve from fortunes , but also prepare them to do well with that .
and we don &apos;t like our kids if we give them the feeling that they can &apos;t adapt .
the reason is , it used to be better than anything worse than anything worse , it was possible for people to have experience that was a pleasant surprise .
you have to separate two things : one is the medical fact of being amputated and one is the social opinion about whether i &apos;m disabled or not .
and to be honest , the only real and persistent disability i had to deal with is that the world is constantly speaking , it can describe me with these definitions .
in our desire to protect the people who care about us and tell them the cold , hard truth about their medical forecast , or even a forecast for quality of life that they expect , we need to adjust that we don &apos;t put the foundation for someone to actually be disabled .
maybe the current concept , which is just looking at what &apos;s in a broken , and how we repair that , for each one , is a greater disability than pathology itself .
if we don &apos;t treat a human wholly , and we don &apos;t perceive all the forces and all the possibilities that we have , in addition to the natural struggle that you might have to do , we create another disease .
we degrade a person who has value for our society .
so we have to look beyond the patology and focus on all sorts of human possibilities .
but most importantly , between the perception of our inadequacy and our great invention spirit , there is a connection .
we should not degrade or deny these challenging times , we should not try to avoid them , nor should we get them under the carpet , but it &apos;s about recognizing the odds of the jokes .
it may be more to me to make sure that we don &apos;t necessarily have to overcome adversity , but that we are open to embrace it , to put it on the shelf , to use a fight expression , and maybe even dance with it .
today , in the world that we live in -- we have wealthy , industrialized citizens , with perfection as an expectation -- the best thing you can ever hope for is things as good as you expect them to be .
and maybe we &apos;re able to see adversity as something natural , coherent and useful , and we can &apos;t feel so badly about their presence .
this year , we celebrate the 200th anniversary of charles darwin , and when he wrote about evolution 150 years ago , darwin , in my eyes , pointed out something very true in human character .
i would rewrite it this way : not the most powerful of his species survives , and not the most intelligent of his species , but the one that can best adapt to change .
conflicts come from creativity .
not only from darwin &apos;s work , we know that the ability to survive and flourish is determined by the fight of the human mind to transform through conflict .
so , again , change and adaptation are the greatest skills of man .
and maybe we only know what wood we &apos;re made of when we &apos;re really being checked out of .
maybe that &apos;s exactly what the sense of adversity , the perception of the icon , is a sense of our own power .
we can give ourselves something like this .
we can give adversity a new meaning that goes beyond severe times .
they &apos;re never going to be pleasant because their expectations , my expectations , are homegrown .
maybe we can see adversity as a change .
adversity is a change that we haven &apos;t yet adapted to .
i think the biggest damage we &apos;ve added ourselves is to believe that we should be normal .
let &apos;s face it -- who &apos;s normal ?
there &apos;s no normal .
there &apos;s the usual one . the typical one , but not the normal one , and would you really want to get to know this poor , gray person if they really did exist ?
i don &apos;t think so .
it would be great if we could share this paradigm of normality against another of the possibilities or the strength to even form it a little bit more dangerous , and we can release the forces of very many children , and invite them to bring their special and valuable skills into society .
anthropollinators have found that we &apos;ve always asked people from the members of our society to be useful and to contribute .
there &apos;s evidence that the neanderthals , 60,000 years ago , have contributed older people and severe physical injury , and that may have happened because the life experience in the survival of these people was valuable for society .
the secret to happiness -- that &apos;s what they all came for -- the secret to happiness is low expectations .
they didn &apos;t think of these people as broken and useless ; they were treated as something special and valuable .
a few years ago , i went to the city where i grew up , to a grocery store in this red zone in the northeast of pennsylvania , and i was standing in front of a scheffel .
it was summer , and i had shorts .
and i hear a guy behind me say , &quot; well , if that &apos;s not aimee mullins . &quot;
and i turn around and i see this older man . i had no idea who he is .
and i said , &quot; excuse me , sir , do we know ? i can &apos;t remember you . &quot;
and he said , &quot; well , you can barely remember me .
when i first saw her , i took her out of her mother &apos;s belly . &quot;
oh , so that one .
and of course , it did click .
i want to say -- a short autobiographical moment -- that i &apos;m married with a woman , and she &apos;s really , really wonderful .
this was dr. kean , a man i only knew from narratives of my mother about this day , because , of course , i was typical , to my birthday , two weeks late .
my mother &apos;s doctor for prenatal diagnostics was on vacation , and so my parents knew the man who brought me to the world at all .
and because i had been born without legs , and my feet had been focused on them , and i had just a few toes on this and a few toes on the other foot , he was the overlap , this stranger had to get the bad news .
he said to me , &quot; i had to tell your parents that you would never walk , and you would never be as moving as other kids , or you could never live an independent life , and they just punished me since then . &quot;
i found really extraordinary that he had collected newspaper clips from my entire childhood , whether i had won in a second grade spelling competition , whether i was on the side of the parade to halloís , whether i had my scholarship or one of my athletic victories , and he used these clips to teach his students , medical students from hahnemann medical school and the hershey medical school .
and he called this part of his class the x factor , the potential of the human will .
you can &apos;t just emphasize enough how critical this factor can be to the quality of a human being &apos;s life .
and dr. kean said , he said , &quot; i learned that kids , if they don &apos;t get anything else all the time , and even if they get a little bit of support , if you leave children alone , then children can achieve a lot . &quot;
you see , dr. kean changed his thinking .
he understood that the medical diagnosis , and how someone &apos;s dealing with it , are two different things .
i couldn &apos;t have done better . i didn &apos;t let myself down .
and i also changed my thinking over time , if you had asked me , at the age of 15 , if i had swapped my prosthetic legs for meat and bone , i wouldn &apos;t have delayed for a second .
i was desperate to be normal at the time .
if you ask me that today , i &apos;m not so sure .
and that &apos;s because i &apos;ve experienced something with my legs and not despite those experiences .
and maybe that change could happen , because i &apos;ve met so many people who have opened my doors , rather than meeting people who wanted to constrain me or want to mutilate me an idea .
you see , it really only takes one person to demonstrate to you how you can manifest your forces , and you &apos;re through .
if you allow someone to activate their own internal forces -- the human mind is so reception ready -- if you can do that , and open a door for somebody in a critical moment , you &apos;re a very good teacher for those people .
they teach them to open their doors .
the real meaning of the word &quot; educate &quot; is rooted in the word &quot; educe . &quot;
it means to produce something that is in you , to tickle the potential .
or , one of the most intriguing tribes i &apos;ve ever lived with , the waorani in the northeast of ecuador , an amazing people who had been peaceful in 1958 .
but defeat is not always that bad thing .
again , what potential do we want to do now ?
in the &apos; 60s , a case study was done in britain , and at the time , gymnasians were transformed into total schools .
they call this &quot; streaming trials &quot; in the united states , we call it &quot; tracking . &quot;
the students are divided after notes .
and the a students are getting harder to test , and they get better teachers and so on .
they then , over a three-month period of time , gave students a &quot; sufficient &quot; the note &quot; very well , and they were told that they were very smart , and after that three months , they really wrote one .
and of course , it breaks your heart to you that the other way around it was told that you were just sufficient .
and it was the same after the three months .
but only those who were still in school -- aside from the students who had missed school .
and the key thing about this study was that the teachers weren &apos;t inferred .
finally , a consequence of buying a bad sitting jean , if there &apos;s only one way to buy , is that if you &apos;re unhappy , and you wonder why , who &apos;s responsible , the answer is clear . the world is responsible . what could you have done ?
the teachers didn &apos;t know that something was changed .
they were just told that the students were one-size-fits-all , and that the students are enough with the grade , and that &apos;s how they taught them something and treated them .
the only real disability is a broken mind that has been broken , has no more hope , and he &apos;s not found anything beautiful . he &apos;s missing our natural , childish curiosity , and our innate capacity of imagination .
but if we can continue to support the human spirit , to continue to hope for ourselves and other people around us to find themselves beautiful , curious and imaginative , then we really put our forces in a positive way .
if a mind has these qualities , we can create a new reality and new forms of existence .
i want to end with a poem written by a persian poet named hafiz in the 14th century , and that my friend jacques dembois told me , and the poem is called &quot; the god who knows only four words . &quot; every child knows god , not the god of the name , not the god of the commandments , but the god who knows only four words and repeats them all the time , he just says , &quot; come , dance with me . &quot;
come on , dance with me . thank you .
how would you want to be better than you are right now ?
suppose that , through a few changes in your genes , a better memory could have -- more precise , more accurate and faster .
or want to be fitter , stronger , more powerful .
if hundreds of different kinds of jeans are available , and they buy one that &apos;s disappointing , and they ask why , who &apos;s responsible ?
do you want to be more attractive and confident ?
what would it be like to live longer in good health ?
or maybe you &apos;re one of those who has always been looking for more creativity .
which one would you like the most ?
which one would you like to have if it could only have one ?
creativity .
how many people would choose creativity ?
raise your hands . let me see .
a few . probably about as many as creative people here .
that &apos;s very good .
it &apos;s as clear that the answer to the question is : it .
how many would choose to make a good memory ?
a few more .
what about fitness ?
a few less .
what about longevity ?
ah , the majority . i like to see that as a doctor .
if you could only have one of them , it would be a very different world .
is this all just education ?
or maybe it &apos;s possible ?
evolution has been an ongoing topic here at the ted conference , but today i want to give you the view of a doctor on the subject .
they could have done better .
the great geneticist in the 20th century , t.g. dobzhansky , who was also a communicator in the russian orthodox church , once wrote a paper called &quot; nothing in biology makes no sense except in the lit of evolution . &quot;
now , if you &apos;re one of those who doesn &apos;t accept the evidence of biological evolution , this would be a very good time to turn off your listening device , take your personal communication device -- i &apos;ll give you permission -- and maybe you can take a look at kathryn schultz &apos;s book , which is to be wrong , because nothing in the course of this talk will make any sense for you .
but if you accept biological evolution , do you consider this : is it just about the past , or is it about the future ?
is it for others , or is it for us ?
this is another look at the tree of life .
in this picture , i put a bush as a center of despair in all directions , because if you look at the edges of the tree of life , all of the existing species at the top of these branches have been successful in evolutionary terms : they have survived ; it has demonstrated fitness and strength in its environment .
the human part of this book , far at the end , is , of course , what we &apos;re most interested in .
we branch from a common ancestor to modern chimpanzees about six or eight million years ago .
in this period of time , there were maybe 20 or 25 different species of hominids .
some of them came and went .
with 100 different kinds of jeans in the window , there &apos;s no excuse for errors .
we &apos;ve been here for about 130,000 years .
it seems that we &apos;re quite remote from the other parts of the tree of life , but in fact , most of the fundamental mechanisms of our cells are pretty much the same .
do you realize that we can take advantage of it , and we can take the mechanisms of a common bacterium to produce the protein of the human insulin , which is used to treat diabetics ?
this is not like humaninsulin ; this is the same protein that &apos;s chemically undistinctive from what comes out of the pancreas .
and when we talk about bacteria , do you realize that each of us in our gut leads more bacteria than it leads cells in the rest of our bodies ?
maybe 10 times as many .
i mean , do you think , when antonio damasio asks for your self-image , do you think about the bacteria ?
our gut is a wonderfully hospitable environment for these bacteria .
it &apos;s warm , it &apos;s dark , it &apos;s wet , it &apos;s very comfortable .
and you &apos;re going to offer them all the nutrients that they could only wish without any effort on their own .
and so , when people make decisions , and even though the results of decisions are good , they feel disappointed about them , they accuse themselves .
it &apos;s a really easy way for bacteria , with occasional interruptions of the unintended , to make jeoddy outcome .
but otherwise , they &apos;re a wonderful environment for these bacteria , just as they care about their lives .
they help to digestive essential nutrients , and they protect them against certain diseases .
but what &apos;s going to come in the future ?
are we in a kind of evolutionary balance in a species ?
or are we going to be something else -- something that may even be better adapted to the environment ?
now let &apos;s take a step back to the time of the big bang 14 billion years ago -- the earth , the solar system , about four and a half billion years ago -- the first signs of living things , maybe three to four billion years ago on earth -- the first multi-cellular organisms , maybe so much as 800 or a billion years ago -- and then the human species , which eventually form in the last 130,000 years .
in this huge unfinished symphony of the universe , life on earth is just briefly measured ; the animal kingdom , like a single stroke ; and of human life , a small notation .
that &apos;s us .
this also represents the entertainment of this talk , so i hope d hated you .
clinical depression exploded in the industrial world in the last generation .
now , when i was a neuling at college , i had my first biology class .
i was fascinated by the elegance and beauty of biology .
i fell in love with the power of evolution , and i found something very fundamental : most of the existence of life in single organisms , each cell divides , and all the genetic information of the cell is carried on in both daughter cells .
but at the time that multi-cellular organisms appeared , things began to change .
sexual reproduction comes into the picture .
and most importantly , with the introduction of sexual reproduction that passes the genome on , the rest of the body becomes desperate .
in fact , you could say that the inevitability of the death of our body is in the same moment as sexual reproduction .
now i have to say , when i was a college student , i thought , okay , sex / death , sex / death , death for sex -- it seemed pretty reasonable at the time , but with every year , it came to my increasingly doubts .
i &apos;ve come to understand the feelings of george burns who performed his show in las vegas in the &apos; 90s .
and one night , there &apos;s a knob on his hotel door .
i think a significant -- not the only one , but a significant contributor to this explosion of depression , and also suicide , is that people have experienced the disappointment because their standards are so high , and then , if they have to explain themselves , they think it &apos;s their fault .
he opens the door .
in front of him , there &apos;s a beautifully flattered showgirl .
she looks at him and says , &quot; i &apos;m here for super-sex . &quot;
&quot; that &apos;s wonderful , &quot; says george , &quot; i &apos;m going to take the soup . &quot;
i came to the realization as a doctor that i was working on a goal that was different from the goal of evolution -- not necessarily contradictory , just different .
i tried to preserve the body .
i wanted to keep us healthy .
i wanted to restore the health after a disease .
i wanted us to live a long and healthy life .
evolution is all about the continuation of the genome to the next generation , adaptation and survival after generation .
and so the billboard is that we are generally better , objectively better , and we feel worse .
from an evolutionary standpoint , they &apos;re and i , like , boster rockets , to send the genetic questioning into the next stage of the orbit , and then to fall into the sea .
i think we would all understand the mood that woody allen expressed when he said , &quot; i don &apos;t want to achieve immortality through my work .
i want to do it by not dying . &quot;
evolution doesn &apos;t necessarily mean to prefer the longest life .
it doesn &apos;t necessarily prioritize the biggest , the strongest , the fastest , and not even the smartest .
evolution prioritizes the creatures that are best adapted to their environment .
it &apos;s just the test of survival and success .
on the basis of the ocean , bacteria are there that are thermophil , and in doing so , they survive the hot steam otherwise , if fish were there , it would be vacuum cooked fish , but they managed to make a habitable environment for themselves .
so , what does that mean when we look back at what &apos;s happening in evolution , and how we think about the place of people in evolution , and particularly how we look forward to the next phase , i would say there are a number of possibilities .
the first is that we &apos;re not going to evolve .
in 1957 , five missionary contact tried to make a severe mistake .
so let me remind you .
we &apos;ve reached a kind of balance .
and the reasons for that would be that , first of all , through medicine , we would have managed to get a lot of genes that would have been selected otherwise , and would have been removed from the population .
and secondly , we as a species , have conformed our environment so that we &apos;ve managed to adapt to us just as well as we adapt to them .
and by the way , we &apos;re wandering and circulating and mixing so much that they can no longer say that isolation is necessary for evolution to find statements .
a second possibility is that it will be an evolution of the traditional way , of course , imposed on the forces of nature .
and the argument here would be that the wheels of evolution are slowly grinding , but they &apos;re inexhaustible .
and as far as the isolation goes , if we colonize as a species of planets , there will be isolation and the changes in the environment that evolution could naturally produce .
but there &apos;s a third possibility , a tempting , fascinating and terrifying possibility .
i call it neo-evolution -- the new development that is not simple , but led and decided to be individual in the decisions that we make .
now , how did this happen ?
this is the official dogma that we all think is right , is completely wrong . it &apos;s not true .
how could it be possible that we could do this ?
let &apos;s start by looking at the reality that people today , in some cultures , make decisions about their offspring .
they are , in some cultures , the choice to have more men than women .
it &apos;s not necessarily good for society , but it &apos;s what the individual and the family decide .
so think , if it wasn &apos;t just possible to choose the sex of your child , but also to make genetic adaptations on the body that would cure and prevent disease .
what if you could make the genetic changes to eliminate diabetes or alzheimer &apos;s disease , or eliminate the risk of cancer , or stroke ?
would you not want to make these changes in your genes ?
if we look ahead , these kinds of changes will be increasingly possible .
the human genome project started in 1990 , and it took 13 years .
it cost 2.7 billion dollars .
there &apos;s no question , which is a little bit better than none , but it doesn &apos;t follow , which is better than a choice .
the following year , when it was done in 2004 , they were able to do the same thing for 20 million dollars in the next year to four months .
today , you can complete a sequence of the three billion base pairs of the human genome at a price of about 20,000 dollars and in the space of about a week .
it &apos;s not going to take long to be the reality that there &apos;s going to be the $ 1,000 human genome , and it &apos;s going to be increasingly available for everybody .
a week ago , the national academy of engineering gave the draper prize for francis arnold and willem stemmer , two scientists who , independently , developed techniques that encourage the natural process of evolution to work faster and to make desirable proteins in an efficient way -- which frances arnold calls &quot; direct evolution . &quot;
a few years ago , the laser prize was given to the scientist shinya yamanaka for his research , where he took a grown-up skin cell , a fibroblast , and through manipulation of just four genes that induced the cell to return it to a pluripotent stem cell -- a cell is potentially able to become any cell in your body .
these changes are coming .
the same technology that the human insulin can produce in bacteria can make viruses that can not only serve protection from themselves , but also serve for immunity against other viruses .
believe it or not , it &apos;s an experimental study in gang with vaccine against influenza , which has been grown in the cells of a tobacco plant .
can you imagine something good coming from tobacco ?
this is all reality today , and in the future , it will be much more possible .
there &apos;s a magical amount . i don &apos;t know what it is .
so imagine just two other little changes .
you can change the cells in your body , but what if you could change the cells of your descendants ?
what if they could change the sperm and the egg , or the newly fertilized egg , to give their children a better chance of a healthier life -- eliminating diabetes , reducing the hemophiles , reducing the risk of cancer ?
who doesn &apos;t want healthier kids ?
and then the analytical technique , the same engine of science that can enable the changes to prevent disease , could also enable us to adopt super-attributes , hyper-capacity -- the better memory .
why don &apos;t the power of a ken jennings hben , especially if you can expand it with the next generation of the watson machine ?
why not have the fast muscle fibers that will allow you to run faster and longer ?
why no longer live ?
these will be irresistible .
and if we &apos;re at a point where we can pass it on to the next generation , and we can adopt the attribute that we want , we will be transformed from old style evolution to neo-evolution .
i &apos;m pretty sure that we &apos;ve missed this point for a long time with the choice of our public good .
we &apos;re going to have a process that &apos;s usually going to take 100,000 years , and we can compress it to a thousand years -- and maybe even the next 100 years .
these are decisions that your grandchildren have to deal with , or your grandchildren .
do we use these decisions to form a society that &apos;s better , that &apos;s more successful , that &apos;s more friendly ?
or will we selectively choose different attributes that we want to have for some of us and not for others ?
are we going to be a society of dielangular and uniformly more , or more robust and diverse ?
these are the kinds of questions that we need to face .
and most profound of all , are we ever going to be able to develop the wisdom and master the wisdom that we &apos;re going to need to make these decisions wise ?
in the good and the bad , and before you might think , these decisions will be on us .
thank you .
i want you to imagine something now , a portable robot that gives you superhuman skills , or another that helps you to stand up and walk .
now , as a rule of question -- i &apos;m almost done -- as a basic question , the thing is to think about . the thing that enables all of this choice in the industrialized societies is wealth .
we at berkeley bionics call these robots exoskeletons .
they &apos;re not anything but something that they do in the morning that will give them extra strength , and that will continue to increase their speed , and that will help them keep their balance , for example .
this is actually the true melting of human and machine .
but not only that -- they merge and they connect with the universe and other devices out there .
it &apos;s not just a crazy idea .
now , to show you what we &apos;re working on , we &apos;re starting to talk about the american soldiers on average , which is about 100 pounds on his back , and it &apos;s the question that they should carry more equipment .
of course , this leads to some major complications -- spinal injury , 30 percent of it -- chronic spinal injury .
so we thought we would take this challenge and create an exoskeleton that would help deal with this problem .
so let me introduce you now to hulc -- or the human universal load carrier .
soldat : with the hulc exoskeleton , i can carry 200 pounds of different terrain for many hours .
there are many places in the world , and we &apos;ve heard about many of you whose problem is not too big a choice .
his flexible design allows you to rise deep , to crawl , to crawl and to perform highly agile movements .
it feels what i want to do , where i want to go and then increase my strength and resilience .
we &apos;re here , with our industrial partner , to introduce this device , this new exoskeleton this year .
so it &apos;s true .
so let &apos;s take a look at the wheelchair drivers , something that i &apos;m particularly passionate about .
there are 68 million people who are estimated in a wheelchair in the world .
that &apos;s about one percent of the population .
and that &apos;s actually a conservative estimate .
we &apos;re often talking about very young people with spinal cord injury , who have been struck in the flowering time of their lives -- 20s , 30s , 40s -- by the fate , and the wheelchair is the only option .
but it &apos;s also about the aging population , whose number is multiplied .
their problem is they have too little .
and pretty much the only option -- when it comes to a stroke of the brain , or other complications -- is the wheelchair .
and so , by the way , it &apos;s been 500 years since , i have to say , very successful introduction .
so we thought we could start writing a whole new chapter in mobility .
so let me introduce you to elegs , which is carried by amanda boxtel , which 19 years ago had a spinal cord injury , which has come to the conclusion that it could no longer run for 19 years and so far .
thank you .
as i said , amanda carries our elephant .
it has sensors .
his completely non-invasive sensors in the crutches that send signals back to our onboard-computer that &apos;s attached here to your back .
here are also batteries packaging , the engine is on their hips , as well as their knee joints that they move forward in this rather smooth and very natural gangs .
i was 24 years old , and i was best-shaped when a monstrous pure tree during a ski ride paralyzed me .
so the things i &apos;m talking about are a strange problem of modern , rich , western societies .
in a fraction of a second , i lost every feeling and every movement underneath my basin .
not long after that , a doctor stepped into my hospital room , and he said , &quot; amanda , you &apos;ll never be able to go again . &quot;
and that was 19 years ago .
he steal every five pounds of hope out of my consciousness .
adaptive technologies have allowed me since then , to learn , to ski again , to climb and even ride a bike with your hands .
but nothing was invented that would let me go again , until now .
thank you .
as you can see , we have the technology , we have the platforms to meet and discuss with them .
it &apos;s in our hands , and we have all the potential here to change the lives of future generations -- not just for the soldiers , or for amanda here and all the wheelchair drivers , but for everyone .
thank you .
and what &apos;s so frustrating and angry is that steve levitt told you yesterday about how these more expensive and difficult to install car seats . it &apos;s a waste of money .
at home in new york , i &apos;m the head of the development department of a nonprofit organization called robin hood .
if i &apos;m not fighting poverty , i &apos;m fighting as a fireman &apos;s chief in a volunteer trigger the fire .
now , in our town , in which volunteers supported a highly skilled professional fire department , you have to be pretty early on on in order to interfere with .
i remember my first fire .
i was the second volunteer at the fire site , so i had pretty good opportunities to be able to get in there .
but it was still a race against the other volunteers to reach the chief man and figure out what our jobs would be .
when i found the main man , he had a very serious conversation with the owner of the house , who certainly had one of the worst days of her life .
it was in the middle of the night , and she stood in the train , and she was standing barefoot under a screen outside in the streams while her house was in flames .
the other volunteer who had arrived in front of me -- let &apos;s call him lex luther -- reached the main man first , and was asked to go to the house and save the owner &apos;s dog .
the dog ! i was linguistic .
they threw shiny photos of themselves out of the air , which we would consider a friendly gesture , and they forgot that these people from the rainforest in their lives had never seen anything two-dimensional .
what i &apos;m telling you is that these expensive , complicated decisions -- it &apos;s not easy that you don &apos;t help .
there was some lawyer or assets , who could now tell people for the rest of his life that he went to a burning house to save a living thing , just because he was five seconds faster than me .
well , i was next .
the main man would wave me up .
he said , &quot; bezos , you have to go to the house .
you &apos;ve got to go up , and you &apos;ve got to go by the fire , and you &apos;ve got to get some shoes from this woman . &quot;
i swear it .
well , not exactly what i was hoping for , but i went -- up the stairs , down the hallway , past the real firemen who were quite finished with the deletion , in the bedroom to get some shoes .
i know what you &apos;re thinking , but i &apos;m not a hero .
i wore my prey back down where i met my enemy at the front door and the beloved dog .
we carried our estimates out to the owner , where , not surprisingly , he got a lot more attention than mine .
they even hurt .
a few weeks later , the fire guard received a letter from the home owner , where she was thanking for the brave deployment of her house .
one about all the measured kindness : somebody had actually taken her a pair of shoes .
both in my profession at robin hood and in my side profession as a volunteer fireman , i am witnessing generosity and kindness at the big scale , but i also see actions of altruism and the mute of individuals .
and you know what i learned ?
they &apos;re all important .
so when i look around this room and i see people who have either reached a remarkable success or are on their way there , i want to offer the following memory : don &apos;t wait .
don &apos;t wait to make a difference in somebody else &apos;s life until they &apos;ve reached their first million .
if you have something to give , now give it to you .
serve in a soup kitchen , clean up a park in the neighborhood .
be a mentor .
they make it worse for us to stand there .
not every day will give us a chance to save the life of a human , but every day it will give us a chance to change one .
so go ahead ; save the shoes .
thank you .
bruno guissani : mark , come back .
thank you .
i &apos;m just coming back from a community that knows the mystery of humanity &apos;s progression .
a place where women are leading the recipient , with sex &apos; hello , &apos; and the game is determining the day -- where fun is serious .
and no , it &apos;s not burning man or san francisco .
ladies and gentlemen , their relationship .
this is the world of the wild bonobos in the congo forest .
if something of what enables people in our society to make decisions like this , to the societies where people have shifted too little choice , not only would the lives of people , but our dignity be improved .
bonobos are our closest living relatives with chimpanzees .
that means we have a common ancestor , an evolutionary grandmother , who lived about six million years ago .
now , chimpanzees are known for their aggressiveness .
but unfortunately , we have overemphasized this aspect in the narrative of human evolution .
but bonobos show us the other side of the medal .
while chimpanzees are led by big , scary guys , the bonobo society is led by empowered females .
they really came up with something , because that leads to a very tolerant society where deadly violence has not been seen before .
but unfortunately , bonobos are the least known among primates .
they live in the depths of the congolese primordial forest , and they &apos;re very difficult to see .
the congo is a paradox -- a country of extraordinary biodiversity and beauty , but also the heart of darkness itself -- the scene of a violent argument that has been raging for decades , and almost as many lives as the first world war .
economists call this a pareto improvement rating .
it &apos;s not surprising that this destruction also threatens the survival of the bonobos .
meat trade and the decline of the tree cause you to not even fill a stadium with the remaining bonobos -- and even there , we &apos;re not sure to be honest .
and yet , in this country of violence and chaos , you can hear a hidden laugh that the trees are shattering .
who are these relatives ?
we know them as &quot; love instead of war &quot; monkeys , because they have frequent sex , they have bisexual partners , and rules like conflict and social issues .
i &apos;m not saying that &apos;s the answer to all humanitarian problems -- because the life of the bonobos is more than the cama sutra .
bonobos -- like people -- love playing their lives .
play doesn &apos;t just mean child games .
for us and it &apos;s a fundamental game for connecting relationships and caring for tolerance .
and we learn trust and the rules of the game .
income distribution is going to make sure that everybody &apos;s better -- not just the poor -- because all this big choice is plaguing us .
play is increasing creativity and resilience , and it &apos;s all about the creation of diversity -- diversity of interactions , diversity of behaviors , diversity of connections .
and when you watch bonobos playing , you see the evolutionary origins of human salmon , dance and rituals .
play is the tickle that keeps us together .
now , i don &apos;t know how you &apos;re playing , but i want to show you some unique footage from the wild .
first of all , a ball game in bonobo-art -- and i don &apos;t think of football .
so here &apos;s a young female and male in a tracking game .
look at what she &apos;s doing .
this could be the evolutionary origin of &quot; she grabs it in the eggs . &quot;
just that i think he likes it , right ?
yeah !
finally , please read this cartoon , and a highly developed person says , &quot; ah ! what does this fish know ?
so sex games are common , both in bonobos and in people .
and this video is really interesting , because it shows -- and this video is really interesting , because it shows the ideal wealth that you bring in new elements -- like the testicles -- and also how the game requires both trust and promotes -- while it &apos;s also incredibly fun .
but the game is a form transducer .
play is a form transducer , and it can take a lot of forms , some of which are a little quieter , imaginative , curious -- maybe to rediscover the amazing .
and i want to show you , this is fuku , a young female , and she plays peaceful with water .
i think just as they play , sometimes we play alone , and we select boundaries of our inner and outer worlds .
and it &apos;s this playful curiosity that lets us explore and interact , and the unexpected linkages that we form are the real nutrients of creativity .
this is just a little taste of the insights that bonobos give us into our past and present .
but they also keep a secret to our future , a future where we have to adapt to increasing challenges , with greater creativity and printing , reinforced cooperation .
the secret is that the game is the key to these skills .
you don &apos;t know anything in this goldfish glass . &quot;
in other words , play is our adaptation joker .
in order to successfully adapt to an inconstant world , we have to play .
but are we going to make the best of our play drive ?
play is not silly .
it &apos;s essential .
for bonobos and people , equally , life is not made of teeth and claws alone .
just when it seems hardly appropriate , play may be the most necessary .
and so , my primate comrades , let &apos;s hug this gift of evolution and play together as we rediscover creativity as we rediscover the crony and the wonder .
thank you .
i want you to imagine two couples , mid-1979 , exactly the same day , at exactly the same moment , every single baby -- okay .
impoverished imagination , a short-sighted view of the world -- and that &apos;s the way i first read it .
so two couples , every baby .
now , i don &apos;t want you to spend too much time imagining the production , because if you think about the production all the time , you won &apos;t listen to me .
imagine that for a moment .
and in this scenario , imagine that in one case , the sperm is wearing a y chomosom that &apos;s hitting the x chromosome of the egg .
and in the other case , the sperm carries a x chromosome that hits the x chromosome of the egg cell .
both of them are survivable , both lit .
we &apos;ll get back to these people later .
in most of my activities , i have two hats .
under a hat , i &apos;m involved in the history of anatomy .
i &apos;m a historian , and in this case , i study how people were dealing with anatomy -- meaning human bodies , animal bodies -- how they were dealing with body fluids , with body concepts ; how they were thinking about bodies .
but the more i thought about it , the more i came to the view that the fish knows something .
the other hat that i &apos;ve worn in my work is the activist , as a patient lawyer -- or , i sometimes say , as an impatient lawyer -- of people who are patients of doctors .
in this case , i &apos;ve been working with people who have body types , who have social norms in question .
so for example , i &apos;ve been working with people who are siamesian twins , two people in a body .
i worked with people with dwarfs -- so people who were smaller than usual .
and very often , i &apos;ve been working with intersexual people whose gender is atypical -- so people who don &apos;t have the average male or female body types .
and as a general term , we can use the word &quot; intersexuality . &quot;
intersexuality occurs in many different forms .
i &apos;m just going to give you a few examples of the possible types of sexual variants that don &apos;t correspond to the male or female standard .
in one case , you might have somebody with an xy chromosome base , and the sry gene of the y chomosoms leaves the protogonads that we all have to grow up in fetal stadium .
and that &apos;s why the testosterone , in the fetal stage , gives off testosterone .
they took these photographs from the forest floor , tried to see behind the face or the character , found nothing and concluded that these were business cards of the devil , and killed the five missions with the spear .
because the truth is that if you break the gold glass , it &apos;s all possible , you don &apos;t have freedom . you have paralysis .
but because this individual is missing the receptors to see the testosterone , the body doesn &apos;t respond to the testosterone .
and this is called androgen-receptor defect .
so a lot of testosterone , but no reaction to that .
as a consequence , the body develops more to the typical female course .
when the child is born , she looks like a girl .
she &apos;s a girl . she &apos;s raised as a girl .
but it &apos;s mostly until she reaches puberty and her breasts grow and evolve , but she doesn &apos;t get her period until someone comes to the fact that there &apos;s something else .
and they do some tests , and they find that instead of iron sticks and uterus , it actually has testicles in it , and it has a y chromosome .
and it &apos;s important to understand that you could actually think of this person as male , but they &apos;re not really .
women , like men , have in our bodies something called adrenaline glands .
if you break the gold glass , so that everything is possible , you reduce happiness .
they &apos;re in the back of our bodies .
and the side kidneys make androgens , which are virilizing hormones .
most women , like me -- i think being a typical woman -- i don &apos;t know my actual chromosome building , but i think i probably have the typical -- most women like me are actually talking about androgens .
we produce androgen , and we respond to androgens .
the result is that somebody like me actually has a brain that was exposed to more androgens than a woman who was born with testicles and has an androgenreceptor defect .
so gender is really complicated ; intersexuals are not just in the middle of the spectrum of gender -- in a way , they can be distributed across the entire bandwidth .
another example : a few years ago , i got a call from a 19 year-old man who was born a boy , he had a friend , he had sex with his girlfriend , lived as a man , and he had just found out that he had ovarian sticks and a uterus .
he had an extreme form of an innate side kidney hyperbladder .
he has xx chromosome , and in the womb , his side kidneys were so highly active that they basically created a male hormone environment .
and as a consequence , his genitals were male , his brain was exposed to the more typical male part of the hormone spectrum .
they increase the paralysis and reduce the happiness .
and when he was born , he looked like a boy -- no one knew anything .
and it wasn &apos;t until he turned 19 that he got enough medical problems , in fact , because he was intrinsically menstruing the doctors that he found out he was female inside .
okay , just a quick example of a variation of intersexuality .
some people with xx chromosomes develop something called ovotestis , where ovotesti tissue is wrapped up by testicular tissue .
we don &apos;t know exactly why this is happening .
so , gender can occur in many different varieties .
the reason why kids with this kind of body -- whether it &apos;s dwarfs or siamic twins , whether it &apos;s intersexual -- are often adapted to the norm by surgeons , is not because that would be of advantage for their physical health .
in many cases , these people are completely healthy .
the reason why they often do different kinds of surgical interventions is because they threaten our social categories .
typically , our system is based on the idea that a particular anatomic leap comes in with a particular identity .
everybody needs a gold glass .
so we have the concept that being a woman is to have a female identity ; to be a black person , which is , supposedly , to have an african anatomy in terms of their own story .
so we have this terribly simplistic idea .
and when we &apos;re faced with a body that actually represents something very different for us , it confuses us in terms of these categorizations .
so we have a lot of romantic ideas in our culture about individualism .
and our nation is really based on a very romantic concept of individualism .
now , you can imagine how amazing it is when children are born , who are two people in a body .
where i had seen most exciting recently was the south african runner caster semenya last year , whose gender was challenged at the leichatlethik world cup in berlin .
many journalists called me with the question , &quot; what test are you going to do that tells us if caster semenya is female or male ? &quot;
and i had to explain to the journalists that there &apos;s no test .
we now know that gender is complicated enough that we have to admit that nature doesn &apos;t draw between male and female and female , or between male and intersexual and female and intersexual ; tactile , we are that line of separation as natural .
this is almost entirely limited to perfect security -- possibly for the fish , definitely for us .
so we have a situation like this where , the further our science progresses , we have to admit that these categories that we had thought were stable anatomic categories , which made very simple arrangements to create permanent identity categories , are much worse than we thought .
and that &apos;s not just about gender .
it &apos;s also true of race , which turns out to be much more complicated than our terminology has allowed .
in our views , we got into all sorts of inconvenient areas .
for example , we &apos;re encountering the fact that we have at least 95 percent of our dna with chimpanzees .
what should we do with the fact that we &apos;re just different from them by a few nucleotide ?
as we move our science further and further , we &apos;re getting into a zone of discomfort , where we need to recognize that the simplistic categories that we probably had are too simple .
we see this in all sorts of different areas of human life .
one of the areas in which we see this as an example , in our culture today , in the united states today , are the fighting over the beginning and the end of life .
we have difficult conversations about where a body becomes human , so that it has a different right than fetal life .
but the barrier of a metaphorical goldfish glass is a recipe for misery , and i suspect , disaster .
we have very difficult arguments today -- maybe not as public as in medicine -- on the question of when someone is dead .
our ancestors never used to have that hard to fight with the question of when someone was dead .
you &apos;ve held a feather under your nose , and when it moved , you haven &apos;t buried it yet .
when she didn &apos;t move , you buried her .
but today we &apos;re in a situation where we want to take people &apos;s vital organs and plant them to other people .
and as a result , we start to fight with the really difficult question of when someone is dead , and that brings us into a really difficult situation where we don &apos;t have as simple categories as we used to .
now you might think that the whole collapse of categories would make someone like me really happy .
i &apos;m progressive , i defend people with unusual bodies , but i have to admit it makes me nervous .
understanding that these categories are really much more insecure than we thought , makes me excited .
and it makes me excited about thinking about democracy .
thank you very much .
so to tell you about this tension , i have to first know that i &apos;m a big fan of the founding fathers .
i know they were racial , i know they were sexists , but they were great .
i think they were so brave and strong , and so radical , in what they did , i found myself looking at the maltzy musical 1776 every few years , and it &apos;s not because of the music that &apos;s totally forgotten .
it &apos;s because of what happened in 1776 with the founding fathers .
the founding fathers , in my view , were the original anatomic activists , and that &apos;s why .
what they returned to was an anatomic concept , and they replaced it by another that was radical and beautiful , and 200 years for us was measurable .
as you all remember , our founding fathers rejected the concept of monarchy , and the monarchy was basically based on a very simplistic concept of anatomy .
the rulers of the old world didn &apos;t have a concept based on dna , but they had a concept of birth rights .
they had a concept of blue blood .
they thought that people who had political power should have this political power , because of the inherited bloodline from grandfather to son and so on .
you know , i &apos;ve talked about some of these projects before , about the human genome and what that might mean , and about discovering new groups of genes .
the founding fathers returned this idea and replaced it through a new anatomic concept , and this concept said that all humans were created equally .
they nivellized the field of play , and they decided that anatomically , the similarities were counting , not the differences . and that was very radical .
now they did this in part because they were part of an enlightenment system where two things grew together .
democracy grew , but at the same time science grew .
if you look at the history of the founding fathers , it &apos;s clear that many of them were very interested in science , and they were interested in a concept of a natural world .
they went away from explanations of supernatural species , and proven things like a supernatural concept of power , where the transmission is based on a very vague concept of birth law .
they moved to a natural concept .
and if you look at , for example , the declaration of independence , they talk about nature and the god of nature .
they don &apos;t talk about god and the nature of god .
they talk about the power of nature to tell us who we are .
in fact , we &apos;re starting from a new point : we &apos;ve digitized biology , and now we &apos;re trying to get from the digital code to a new phase of biology by designing and building new life .
and as part of that , they gave us a concept that was about anatomical commonalities .
and they &apos;ve prepared , in a really wonderful way , the future civil rights movement .
they didn &apos;t think about it that way , but what they did for us was great .
so what happened years after that ?
for example , women who aspired the right to vote , the concept of founding fathers , which says that anatomical commonality is more important than the anatomic difference , and said , &quot; that we have a uterus and ovarian hives is not significant enough that we shouldn &apos;t have the right to vote , the right to full citizenship , the right to ownership , etc . &quot;
and women argued that successfully .
next came the successful civil rights movement , where we saw people like soap truth , who are talking about it , &quot; am i not a woman ? &quot;
we find men in the marching rows of the citizenship movement saying , &quot; i &apos;m a man . &quot;
again , people of different skin color based on anatomical commonalities before anatomic differences , successful again .
we see the same thing with the disability movement .
we &apos;ve always tried to ask meaningful questions .
of course , the problem is that , as we start to look at all the similarities , we have to start to question why we maintain certain divisions .
well , i want to sustain certain separations , anatomically , in our culture .
for example , i don &apos;t want to give a fish the same rights as a human .
i don &apos;t want to say that we should take away from anatomy .
i don &apos;t want to say that five year-olds should have the right to give their understanding of sex or marriage .
so there are some anatomic separations that make sense for me , and that we should , i think , keep .
but the challenge is to try to figure out which ones are and why we keep them , and whether they &apos;re meaningful .
so let &apos;s go back to these two creatures that have been approved at the beginning of the talk .
we have two creatures , both in the middle of 1979 , on exactly the same day .
let &apos;s imagine that one of them , maria , was born three months early , so she was born on june one , 1980 .
we go through initiation rituals .
but the waorani didn &apos;t just kill the outsiders with the spear .
what is life ? it &apos;s something that i think many biologists have tried to understand , and that &apos;s on different levels .
heinrich , on the other hand , is born to the birthday min , so he &apos;s born on march one , 1980 .
just because of the fact that maria was born three months prematurely , it takes all kinds of rights three months before heinrich -- to have the right to choose the right to drink .
heinrich has to wait for all of this , not because he actually has another biological age , just because of the time point of his birth .
we find other features about what their rights are .
heinrich , because you assume that he &apos;s male -- although i didn &apos;t tell you that he &apos;s the xy -- because you assume that he &apos;s male , he can now be drawn into what maria doesn &apos;t have to worry about .
but maria , in all states , can &apos;t perceive the same right that heinrich has in all states , and that &apos;s the right to marry .
heinrich can marry a woman in every state , but maria can now marry a woman in a few states .
so we have these permanent anatomic categories that are problematic and questionable in many ways .
and for me , the question is , what are we going to do , because our science makes such progress in the field of anatomy , that we have to reach a point where we have to admit that a democracy based on anatomy could fall apart ?
i don &apos;t want to give up science , but at the same time , sometimes it feels like science is self-sufficient .
we tried different approaches to simplify it to the minimal components .
so where do we go ?
it seems like our culture is a kind of pragmatic posture : &quot; well , we have to draw a line somewhere , so we pull it somewhere . &quot;
but a lot of people are caught in a very strange position .
so , for example , texas , at one point , decided that to marry a man means that you don &apos;t have a y chromosome , and to marry a woman means you have a y chromosome .
now in practice , people are not tested for their chromosome .
but it &apos;s also very bizarre because of the story i told you about the androgen-receptor defect at the beginning .
if we look at one of the founding fathers of modern democracy , dr. martin luther king , he offers us in his &quot; i have a dream &quot; a kind of solution .
he says we should not judge people for &quot; their skin color , &quot; but by the property of their character , &quot; and go beyond anatomy .
and i want to say , &quot; yeah , that sounds like a really good idea . &quot;
but how do you do that in practice ?
we &apos;ve digitized almost 20 years , and when we sequenced the human genome , the shift from the analog world of biology to the digital world of computers .
how do you judge people because of their characteristics ?
i also want to point out that i &apos;m not sure that we should distribute rights in terms of people like this , because i have to admit that i know a series of golden retriever that probably deserve social benefits rather than some people i know .
i want to say that i probably know some bright labraddocks that are more capable of making more intelligent and richer decisions about their sexual relationships than some 40-year-olds i know .
so how do we operate the question of the properties of character ?
it turns out to be really difficult .
and part of me wonders , what if the content of a personality was something that could be machine-readable in the future -- using fmri to be made visible ?
do we really want to go this way ?
i &apos;m not sure where we &apos;re going .
what i know is that it seems really important to think about the idea that the united states is leading to think about questions of democracy .
in our effort for democracy , we did a really good job , and i think we would do our thing well in the future .
now , we &apos;re trying to ask , can we regenerate life , or can we create new life , from this digital universe ?
we don &apos;t have the situation , like it is in iran , where a man who feels sexually drawn to other men is punished with death , unless he &apos;s willing to have a gender transformation , in which case he &apos;s allowed to stay alive .
these kinds of states don &apos;t exist with us .
i &apos;m glad to say that we don &apos;t have these conditions -- a surgeon i spoke to a few years ago , who had brought some siamesian twins to separate them , partly to make a name .
but when i was telephone with him , and i asked him why he was doing these surgeries -- they were very risky surgeries -- his answer was that in his country , these children would be very poorly treated , and that &apos;s why he had to do it .
i said to him , &quot; well , did you consider political asyl instead of an operation to separate it ? &quot;
the united states has incredible opportunities to allow people to be the ones they are without having to change the state &apos;s will .
so i think we need to be leaders .
well , just to finish , i want to notice that i &apos;ve talked a lot about the fathers .
and i want to think about the possibilities of what democracy might look like , or could have looked like if we had more involved the mothers .
and i want to say something that &apos;s a little bit radical for a feminist , and that is , i think , there could be different kinds of insights that govern different kinds of anatomy , in particular , when people apply a group thinking .
this is the map of a small organism , mycoplasma geitalium , which has the smallest genome of a species that can replicate itself in the lab , and we &apos;ve tried to do that with a smaller genome .
for years , because i &apos;ve been interested in intersexuality , i &apos;ve also been interested in research in gender difference .
and one of the things that i found really interesting is the difference between men and women in terms of how they think and operate in the world .
what we &apos;ve learned from cross-cultural studies is that women , on average -- not every one , but on average -- tend to give a lot of attention to complex social relations and caring for people who are vulnerable within the group .
and so when we think about it , we have an interesting situation in front of us .
years ago , when i was a graduate student , one of my graduate students asked me , who knew my interest in feminism -- i looked at myself as a feminist , still do -- a really curious question .
he said , &quot; tell me what &apos;s female in feminism . &quot;
and i thought , &quot; well , that &apos;s the stupidest question i &apos;ve ever heard .
feminism is about solving stereotypes about gender , so feminism is not female .
but the more i thought about his question , the more i thought there could be something female in feminism .
that is to say , there could be something , on average , where female brains are different from male brains , which makes us more aware of highly complex social relations , and more careful for the protective needs .
we &apos;ve managed to avoid about a hundred genes from the 500 or something , which are here .
so where the founding fathers were extremely considerable to find out how individuals could be protected from the state , it &apos;s possible that if we brought more mothers into this concept , we would get more of a concept of , not just how to protect , but how to care for each other .
and maybe it &apos;s where we need to go in the future , if we take democracy beyond anatomy -- less to think about the individual body in terms of identity , and think more about relationships .
so that if , as people , we try to make a more perfect connection , we think about what we can do for each other .
thank you .
i &apos;m jessi , and this is my suitcase .
but before i show you what i have in it , i &apos;m going to make a very public confession , and that is , i &apos;m obsessed with outfits .
i love , at every opportunity , finding a different colorful , crazy outfit , and also photographing and blogging lately .
but i don &apos;t buy anything new .
i get all my clothes from the second hand on flew markets and in second-hand shops .
ooh , thank you .
but if we look at this metabolic map , which is very simple , compared to ours . trust me , that &apos;s simple . but if we look at all these genes that we can eliminate one after another , it &apos;s very unlikely that this would lead to a living cell .
second-hand shopping allows me to reduce the impact of my garderobe to the environment , and also to my wallet .
i meet all kinds of great people ; my dollars usually serve for a good cause ; i look pretty unique ; and it makes a shatter for my own personal search .
i mean , what am i going to find today ?
is it going to be my size ?
am i going to like the color ?
will it cost less than 20 dollars ?
when all the answers are yes , i feel like i &apos;ve won .
i come back to my suitcase , and i &apos;m going to tell you what i packed for this exciting week at ted .
i mean , what does anybody bring with so many outfits ?
so i &apos;m going to show you exactly what i brought with me .
so we decided that it &apos;s the only way forward to the front of this chromosome to actually synthesize what allows us to vary the individual components and ask some of these fundamental questions .
i brought seven underwear , and that &apos;s all .
underwear for just one week is all i &apos;ve done in my suitcase .
i woke up that i would find everything else i might want to wear if i first came to palm springs .
and since you haven &apos;t heard of me , as the woman who &apos;s walking around here at ted in her underwear -- that is , i found a few things .
and i really want to show you my outfits for this week .
does that sound good ?
as i do that , i &apos;m going to share with you some of the lessons that i have , believe it or not , have learned from these adventures to wear nothing new .
let &apos;s start with sunday .
i call this the bright tiger .
you don &apos;t have to spend a lot of money looking great .
and so we started with the question , can we synthesize a chromosome ?
you can almost always look great for less than 50 dollars .
this whole outfit , including the jacket , cost me 55 , and it was the most expensive piece that i was wearing all week .
monday : color is something powerful .
it &apos;s almost physiologically impossible to be miserable when you &apos;re wearing light red pants .
if you &apos;re happy , you attract other happy people .
tuesday : adaptation is totally overrated .
i &apos;ve spent a lot of my life trying to be myself and adapt at the same time .
just be who you are .
if you surround yourself with the right people , you &apos;re not only going to understand it , you &apos;re going to appreciate it .
wednesday : hug your inner child .
does it allow the chemistry to make these really big molecules , which has never been done before ?
sometimes people tell me i look like i &apos;m playing clothes , or i remember their seven-year-old .
i like to smile and say , &quot; thank you . &quot;
thursday : confidence is the key .
if you think you look good in something , it &apos;s almost safe .
and if you think you don &apos;t look good in something , you &apos;re probably right .
i grew up with a mother who taught me the day after day .
but it wasn &apos;t until i turned 30 that i really understood what that means .
and i &apos;m going to summarize that for you for a moment .
if you believe that you &apos;re a wonderful person inside and outside , there &apos;s nothing you can &apos;t wear .
so there &apos;s no excuse for somebody in this audience .
they drilled through each other .
and , if we can do that , can we start the chromosome ?
we should be able to rock everything we want .
thank you .
friday : a universal truth -- five words : golden pailers fit everything .
and finally , saturday : developing a unique , unique , personal style is a great way to tell the world about you without having to say a word .
it was proven to me over and over again , when people came up to me this week , just because of what i was wearing , and i had great conversations .
obviously , that &apos;s not going to fit everything in my tiny suitcase .
so before i go home to brooklyn , i &apos;m going to donate all this again .
because the lesson i &apos;m trying to learn this week is that it &apos;s okay to let go .
i don &apos;t have to grab these things emotionally , because right around the corner , there will always be another crazy , colorful , radiation outfit , waiting for me if i love a little bit in the heart and look for it .
thank you very much .
a chromosome , by the way , is just a piece of informed chemical material .
thank you .
good afternoon , everybody together .
i have something here that i want to show you .
think of this as a visual point , as a flying point of view .
this is what we call perceptual design in our lab .
let me tell you a little bit about that .
now , if you take this picture -- i &apos;m originally italian , and every boy in italy grows up with this picture in his room , but the reason i &apos;m showing you this is because in formula 1 , something very interesting happened in the past decades .
some time ago , if you wanted to win a formula 1 , you took your budget and you put your money on a good driver and a good car .
and if the car and the driver was good enough , they won the race .
now , today , if you want to win a race , you actually need something like this -- something that &apos;s monitoring the car in real time , has a few thousand sensors that are passing information out of the car , passing that information back to the system , and then using it to send that car back to decisions and change things in real time while information is being collected .
our steps in digitizing life were exponential .
this is what they would call , in engineering teams , a real-time control system .
and basically , it &apos;s a system made up of two parts -- a sentient part and a reacting arrow .
what &apos;s interesting today is the real-time control systems are starting to emerge in our lives .
our cities , in the last few years , have just been equipped with networks and electronics .
they become outdoor computers .
and as a computer in the open , they start to react in a different way , they &apos;re perceived and driven .
when we build cities , it &apos;s actually a big deal .
just by the way , i want to mention that cities are only two percent of the world &apos;s land , but 50 percent of the world &apos;s population live there .
they &apos;re 75 percent of the energy consumption -- up to 80 percent of the co2 emissions .
so if we do something with the cities , that &apos;s a big thing .
our ability to write genetic code has evolved very slowly but still increased , and our last point would now be to an exponential curve .
beyond the cities , all of this perceivation and drive into objects of everyday life .
this is from an exhibition that paola antonelli for moma later in the year , during the summer .
it &apos;s called &quot; sprich with me . &quot;
well , all of our objects , our environment , are starting to talk back to us .
in a sense , it &apos;s almost like every atom out there becomes both a sensor and a driver .
and that radically changes the interaction that we humans have with our environment outside .
in a way , it &apos;s almost like the old dream of michelangelo ...
you know , when michelangelo shaped moses , it means that at the end he took the hammer and he threw it on moses -- in fact , you can still see a little spot underneath -- and said , &quot; perché non parli ? why don &apos;t you talk ? &quot;
well , today , our environment begins for the first time to respond to us .
i &apos;m just going to show you a few examples -- again , with the idea of perceiving and driving our environment .
we started 15 years ago .
let &apos;s start with perceiving .
now the first project i want to show you is actually one of the first of our labs .
it was born four and a half years ago in italy .
and what we did was we actually used a new kind of network that was used all over the world -- this is a mobile phone network -- and use anonymous and aggregated information from this network that &apos;s been collected all the way from the operator to understand how the city works .
the summer was a happy summer -- 2006 .
it was when italy won the football world cup .
some of you will remember , it was when italy was playing against france , and then at the end of zidane , the headrest .
and anyway , italy won at the end .
now look at what happened that day , just looking at the activity that happens in the network .
here you see the city .
it actually took a few years to start with a bioethical review before we did the first experiments .
you see in the middle , the colosseum , the flow of tiber .
in the morning , before the game .
you see the timeline up at the top .
it used to be afternoon , people here and there , doing calls and moving .
the game starts -- silence .
france makes a gate . italy makes a gate .
half-time , people make a short call , go to toilet .
second half-time . end of the normal play time .
first extension , second .
zidane , in a moment of the headrest .
it turns out dna synthesization is very difficult .
italy wins . yeah .
well , that night , everybody went to the center to celebrate .
they saw the big impact .
the next day , everybody went to the center to meet the winning team and the prime minister at the same time .
and then everybody went down .
you see the picture of the place about co massimo , where , since the roman time , people go to celebrate -- to have a big party , and you see the impact at the end of the day .
now , this is just one example of how we can feel the city today in a way that we couldn &apos;t do a few years ago .
so , very quickly , another example of sensation : this is not about people , but about things that we use and consume .
well , today , we know everything about where our stuff comes from .
this is a map that shows you all the chips that make up a mac computer , how they came together .
there are tens of thousands of machines around the world that can make little bits of dna , 30 to 50 letters long , but it &apos;s a degenerative process , so the longer you make a piece , the more errors you make .
but we know very little about where things go .
so in this project , we actually designed some little markers to track the trash as it goes through the system .
so we started with some volunteers who helped us , a little over a year ago , in seattle , to tag the things that they threw away -- different kinds of things that you can see -- things that they would throw away anyway .
we then glued the little chips , the little brands , on the garbage and started tracking it .
here are the results that we just got .
from seattle ...
after a week .
with this information , we realized that there &apos;s a lot of inefficient things in the system .
we can actually do the same things with less energy .
the data wasn &apos;t available before .
so we had to develop a new method where we could put these little pieces together and correct the mistakes .
but this is what happens to a lot of unuseful transportation and complicated things .
but the other thing is that we believe that when we see every day , the cup that we throw away doesn &apos;t just disappear , it &apos;s still somewhere on the planet .
and the plastic bottle that we &apos;re throwing away every day still remains there .
and if we showed that to people , then we can move forward a behavior change .
so this is the reason for this project .
my colleague at mit , assaf biderman , could tell you much more about perceiving and the many other wonderful things that you can perceive , but i &apos;d like to talk about the second part that we discussed at the beginning , and that &apos;s the emphasis of our environment .
and the first project is something we did a few years ago in zaragoza , spain .
it started with a mayor &apos;s question that came to us and said that spain and southern europe have a beautiful tradition to use in public places water as part of architecture .
and the question was , how could you connect technology to it ?
and one of the ideas that was mediated at mit in a workforce was , imagine these tubes , and valves , magnet valves , valves that open and close .
this was our first attempt , starting with the digital information , the genome phi x 174 .
they &apos;re causing something like a water curtain with data points of water .
if these dots fall down , they can write on it , they can display patterns , images , text .
and you can get close to him , and he &apos;s going to open up to let them jump through , as you can see in this picture .
well , we introduced the mayor to belhole .
he loved it very much .
and we got the assignment to design a building at the entrance of the expo .
we called it the digital water pavillion .
the whole building was made of water .
there are no doors or windows , but if you approach it , it will open up and let them in .
the roof was also covered with water .
54 percent of the deaths were done by drills .
it &apos;s a little virus that kills bacteria .
and if it &apos;s windy , if you want to reduce the syringes , you can even let the roof down .
or you could close the building , and the whole architecture , like in this case , you know , this day , when you go down the roof , you could get images of people who were there and say , &quot; you &apos;ve destroyed the building . &quot;
no , they didn &apos;t destroy the building , it &apos;s just that architecture almost disappears .
here &apos;s how the building works .
you see the person who &apos;s wondering what &apos;s going on inside .
and here you see me trying to test the sensors that opened the water , not getting wet .
now , i should tell you what happened one night when all the sensors stopped working .
but in fact , it was an even more fun that night .
all the children from zaragoza came to the building , because the way they played with the building was very different .
no longer a building that would open up to let them in , but a building that still had breaks and holes in the water had to jump now without getting wet .
we made little bits , we made a error correction , and we had a dna molecule of about 5,000 letters .
and that was , for us , very exciting , because , as architects , engineers , as designers , we always think about how people who use things that we design .
but reality is always unpredictable .
and that &apos;s the beauty of creating things that are used and interact with people .
so here &apos;s a picture of the building with the physical dots , the data points of water and the projections on it .
and this is what made us think about the following project that i &apos;m going to show you now .
imagine these dots could really start flying .
imagine if you could have little helicopters flying through the air , and each of them with a little image with a switching light -- almost like a cloud that can move through the room .
here &apos;s the video .
imagine a helicopter , like the one you saw earlier , that moves with other people , completely synchronized .
you can have this cloud .
the exciting phase came when we took this piece of informed chemical and put it into a bacterium , and the bacteria started reading the genetic code and made viral particles .
you can have a kind of flexible screen or display , like this -- a smooth formation in two dimensions .
or irregularly , in three dimensions where what changes is the light , is not the position of the dots .
they can play with different species .
imagine the screen could just appear in different formats or different sizes , in different solutions .
but then the whole thing could be just a 3d cloud of points where you can go and move through which you can look at from many , many directions .
here you see a real flyfire-controlling that goes down to form a smooth v , as it used to be .
when you turn on the light , it looks like this . so , just like we saw before .
imagine that every single person is controlled by people .
it may have a momentum that comes from people , from the movements of people , or something like that .
i want to show you something very first here .
the viral particles were then released by the cells and came back and killed e. coli .
we &apos;ve been working with roberto bolle , one of the best ballet dancers of our time -- the étoile at the metropolitan theater in new york and the scale in milan -- we &apos;ve taken his movements in 3d to use them as a impulse for the flyfire .
this is roberto dancing .
on the left you see the dots , the different prisoners &apos; impressions .
it &apos;s also a real-time 3d scan and a motion shot .
so that you can understand the whole movement .
you can do it all the time .
but then , once we have all the data points , you can play with it and play with color , gravity and rotation .
that &apos;s what we want to use as a possible impulse for the flyfire .
i want to show you the latest project we &apos;re working on .
it &apos;s something that we &apos;re working on for the london olympics .
i was talking to the oil industry recently , and they said that they were really on this model .
it &apos;s called the cloud -- the cloud .
the idea is , again , imagine that again , we involve people in order to do something and change the environment -- almost like what we call a cloud movement , how to move a scheunentor , but with a cloud .
imagine that anyone can give a little donation to a picture point .
i think the remarkable thing about the last few years is that we &apos;ve gone from a physical world to a digital world .
this has digitized everything , knowledge , and makes it accessible through the internet .
today , for the first time -- and the campaign of obamas has shown this -- we can change from the digital world , from the self-organizing forces of the networks to the physical world .
that can be , in our case , that we use it to design and create a symbol .
that means something that &apos;s built in the city .
but tomorrow , to give us the next challenges -- think about climate change , or co2 emissions -- how can we move from the digital world to the physical .
so the idea is that we actually involve the people in which they do things together , collectively .
they laughed more than you do here .
the cloud is again a cloud of images , in the same way as a real cloud is a cloud of particles .
and these particles are water , while our cloud is a cloud of points .
it &apos;s a physical structure in london , but covered with data points .
they can move inside and have different kinds of experiences .
you can actually look at it from the bottom , the most important moments for olympia in 2012 and beyond , and use it as a kind of connection to the community .
so both the physical cloud in the sky and something at the top you can go , like london &apos;s new mountain summit .
you can go in .
and a kind of digital light tower at night -- but most importantly , a new kind of experience for everyone who wants to go to the top .
thank you .
as an artist , i care about the context .
so we think that this is a situation in software can actually build your own hardware in a biological system .
through my work , i &apos;m trying to express that humans are not separate from nature , and that everything is connected .
the first time i was in antarctica about 10 years ago , where i saw my first iceberg mountains .
i was struck by awe .
my heart raced , i was dizzy while i was trying to grab what was in front of me .
the iceberg around me was racing about 60 meters out of the water , and i could only wonder that this was a snowflake on a different snowflake , year after year .
icebergs are born as a calf of a glacier , or by breaking out of ice customs .
every iceberg has its own individual personality .
they &apos;re clearly interacting with their surroundings and their experiences .
some people refuse to give up and clam to the bitter end , while others don &apos;t stop it and collapse in a dramatic passion .
when you look at an iceberg , you think it &apos;s easy to be isolated , separated and alone , as we humans often see us .
but we wanted to go a lot further . we wanted to build an entire bacterial chromosome , and it had more than 580,000 letters of genetic code , and so we thought we could build it in tapes of the size of the virus , which we could vary the size of the tape to understand what the individual components of a living cell are .
but the truth is far from it .
while an iceberg is melting , i &apos;m breathing his prior atmosphere .
as the iceberg melts , it releases mineral drinking water that feeds many forms of life .
i &apos;m going to take my footage of these icebergs as if i were to make portraits of my ancestors , in the conscious mind that they &apos;re going to be in these individual moments that are going to never exist again .
it &apos;s not a death when you melt ; it &apos;s not an end , but it &apos;s a continuation of your path along the life cycle .
part of the ice in the iceberg that i &apos;m photographing is very young -- a few thousand years old .
and part of the ice is more than 100,000 years old .
the last pictures i &apos;d like to show you are an iceberg that i photographed in kekertsuatsiak in greenland .
very rarely , you &apos;re actually witnessing a rolling iceberg .
so here you see it .
design is the key , and if you want to start with digital information in the computer , this digital information really has to be flawed .
on the left you see a little boat .
that &apos;s about five feet long .
please look at the shape of the iceberg and where it is on the waterline .
you can see here , he starts rolling , and the boat has moved to the other side , the man is there .
this is the average size of a greenland iceberg .
it &apos;s about 120 feet out of the water , or 40 meters .
and this video is in real time .
and just like that , the iceberg shows you a different side of its personality .
thank you .
my life is really extraordinarily blessed by working on some amazing projects .
when we first sequenced the genome in 1995 , the error rate was at a mistake per 10,000 base pairs .
but the coolest thing i &apos;ve ever worked on was this guy .
his name is tempt .
tempt was one of the leading graffiti artists in the &apos; 80s .
then one day , he came back from walking , and he said , &quot; dad , my legs are crying . &quot;
and that was the outbreak of the thing .
tempt is now completely paralyzed .
he can only use his eyes .
i was faced with him .
i have a company that makes design and animations , so graffiti is inevitably a complex part of what we admire and pay attention to in the art world .
so we decided to support tony -- tempt -- and his thing .
we followed geneaology for eight generations , and we found two cases of a natural death , and when we asked people a little bit about it , they admitted that one of the people had gotten so old that he died because of his age , and we still killed him with the spear .
we found 30 errors in resort , and if we had used the original sequence , it would never have been possible to go up .
i met with his father and his brother and said , &quot; we &apos;re going to give you this money .
what are you going to do with this ? &quot;
and his brother said , &quot; i just want to talk to tony again .
i just want to talk to him again , and i said , &quot; wait a minute , isn &apos;t that -- i &apos;ve seen stephen hawking -- can &apos;t all the paralyzed people communicate with these devices ? &quot;
and he said , &quot; no , only when you hear the higher social layer and you have a remarkable insurance , you can really do that .
ordinary people are not available to these devices . &quot;
and i said , &quot; well , how do you communicate ? &quot;
anybody see the movie &quot; butterfly and diving bell &quot; ?
that &apos;s how they communicate -- that &apos;s how their fingers walk along .
i said , &quot; very archaic , how can that be ? &quot;
part of the design is to make pieces that are 50 letters long , and that have to overlap with other 50-letter pieces to make smaller sub-units so they fit together .
so i came up with the need to just put a check , and instead i put a check , which i didn &apos;t have the slightest idea of how to resolve it .
i committed myself to the place and to his brother and his father -- in the words , &quot; well , my proposal is this : tony &apos;s going to speak , we &apos;re going to get him a device , and we &apos;re going to find a way to make his art again .
because it &apos;s a farce that somebody who carries all of this can &apos;t communicate it . &quot;
so i spoke at a conference a few months later .
i met these guys from grl , graffiti research lab , and they have a technology that allows them to project a light on any surface , and then draw a laser pointer on it , which governs just the negative area .
so they &apos;re moving around making art installations like this .
they say that all the things that are shown up there follow a life cycle .
it starts with the sex stops , and then the shrinks come , and then the bush-publishing , and finally , people actually do art .
but there was always a life cycle in their presentations .
so i went home and i ate with my wife at night , and i told her about everything , and we thought , &quot; well , wait a minute , if there &apos;s this technology that you can use your eyes to control things , we should find a way that speed can control a laser , so that he can do graffiti again , that would be great . &quot;
we built unique elements here .
that was the beginning of the journey .
and about two years later , about a year later , after a lot of organization and a lot of things , we &apos;ve achieved a few things .
first of all , we got the insurance of the doors , and we actually got a device for tempt to communicate with -- a stephen hawking machine .
that was incredible .
and he &apos;s really , really funny -- i call him yoda , because you talk to him , or you get an email , and he thinks , &quot; i &apos;m so unworthy , this guy is incredible . &quot;
we also flew seven programmers from all over the world -- literally from all the corners of the world -- home to us .
my wife , my children and i have moved to the garage , and these hackers and programmers and conspiracy theorists and archists have taken over our house .
many of our friends thought that we were pretty stupid to do this , and that we came back and all the images on the walls were weighed graffitis .
but for over two weeks , we &apos;ve been programming , we went to the boardroom in venice , my kids were involved , my dog , and we created this .
it &apos;s called eyewriter , and you can see the description .
you may have heard that we put watermarks in .
this is a cheap sunglasses that we bought at the venice beach promenade , a little bit of copper wire , and a few things from the hardware market and the electronics exchange .
we took a ps3 camera , we put it apart , put it on a led light , and now we have a device that &apos;s free -- you can build it yourself , we can provide the code for free , the software can be downloaded for free .
so we &apos;ve created a device that &apos;s completely free of limitations .
no insurance can create .
not a hospital either .
now , any paralyzed person can actually communicate or draw with their eyes alone .
thank you .
thank you very much , that was incredible .
so at the end of the two weeks , we went back to tempt &apos;s room .
i love this picture , because it &apos;s the room of somebody else , and that &apos;s his room .
think about it : we have a 4-letter code : a , c , g and t .
now there &apos;s all this rubber before the great unveiling .
and after over a year of planning , two weeks of programming , nudelparties and nights , tony drew again after seven years .
and this is an amazing picture , because this is his life support system , and he looks beyond his life support system .
we cut his bed so it can look out .
we set up a projector against a wall of the parking lot in front of the hospital .
and he drew again for the first time , in both his family and friends -- and you can only imagine what a sense that was in the parking lot .
funny , we also had to break into the parking lot , so we felt right as part of the spray scene .
at the end of the day , he sent us an email with the following content : &quot; for the first time in seven years , i &apos;ve drawn something .
i feel like i was squeezed underwater , and finally someone reached down and raised my head so i could breathe . &quot;
isn &apos;t that overwhelming ?
triplets of these letters -- these letters encode about 20 amino acids ; and there &apos;s a single purpose for each of these amino acids .
it &apos;s kind of like our fight cry .
that &apos;s what keeps us there , and let &apos;s keep evolving .
and we need to improve a lot of this stuff .
it &apos;s an amazing device , but it comes to a magic board .
and someone who has such an artistic potential deserves so much more .
so we &apos;re trying to figure out how to make it better , faster and stronger .
since that time , we &apos;ve received all kinds of recognition .
we won some prices .
remember , it &apos;s free , none of us deserve it .
it all comes from our own pockets .
so we can use the genetic code to write our words , phrases , thoughts .
so the awards were , &quot; oh , that &apos;s fantastic . &quot;
armstrong twittered over us , and then , in december , the time-magazine honored us as one of the 50 best inventions in 2010 , which was really great .
and the coolest thing about this -- and this closes the whole circle -- is that there will be an exhibition in the city of los angeles called &quot; art of the streets . &quot;
and there will be pretty much the hardest representatives of the street art scene there -- banksy , shepard fairey , caws -- all these guys will be there .
tempt is going to be part of the show , which is pretty disconnected .
so basically , what i &apos;m talking about is , if you see something that &apos;s impossible , you can do it .
everything in this room was impossible -- this stage , this computer , this microphone , the eyewriter -- everything was impossible at some point .
make it possible -- all of you here .
i &apos;m not a programmer , and i &apos;ve never had anything to do with a generic technology , but i &apos;ve just captured something and surrounded myself with amazing people so that we could put something on our legs together .
and this is a question that every single one of you should ask yourself , and every single day , when you realize something that needs to be done , if not now , when ? and if not me , who ?
at first , we just signed .
thank you .
so , i write for kids , and i &apos;m probably america &apos;s most common children &apos;s book author .
and i always tell people that i don &apos;t want to get there like a scientist .
you can have me as a farmer , or in leather , but no one has ever elected farmers .
today i want to tell you about circles and revelations .
well , an epiphany is usually something that you find because you dropped it somewhere .
you go around the block and you take it as an epiphany .
this is a painting of a circle .
one of my friends did it -- richard bollingbroke .
it &apos;s the kind of complicated circle that i want to tell you about today .
some people were disappointed that it wasn &apos;t poetry .
my circle started back in the &apos; 60s at high school in stow , ohio , where i was the classroom box .
i was the one who was beaten every week in the virgin toilet , green and blue , until a teacher saved my life .
she saved my life by letting me use the toilet in the classroom .
and she secretly did .
she did it for three years .
and i had to go out of town .
i had a thumb , i had 85 dollars , and it hit me to san francisco in california -- i found a lover -- and then in the &apos; 80s , i found it important to take a job at aids organizations .
about three or four years ago , i got a call from this teacher in the middle of the night , woman posting , who said , &quot; i have to see you .
i &apos;m sad that we &apos;ve never met each other as adults .
can you please come to ohio , and please come together with the man that i know you &apos;ve found in between .
we built the pieces so that we could just break them down with enzymes , and there are enzymes that repair them and repair them .
and i should mention that i have pancreatic cancer , and i want you to hurry . &quot;
well , the next day we were in cleveland .
we looked at her , we laughed , we cried , and we knew she had to be in a hospice .
we found one for her , we brought her , and we took care of her , and we gave her eight , because she needed it .
it was something we knew to do .
and just as the woman who wanted to meet me as an adult , met me , she turned into a box full of ashes and was put in my hands .
what had happened was that the circle had closed , it had become a circle -- and the revelation that i was talking about was happening .
the revelation is that death is part of life .
she saved my life , and my partner and i saved her .
and you know , this part of life needs everything that the rest of life needs .
but at the same time , they had a clear knowledge of the forest that was amazing .
and we started making pieces , starting with pieces that had five to seven thousand letters in them , added them to each other to make 24,000-letter pieces to put them back together to 72,000 .
he needs truth and beauty , and i &apos;m so glad that this has been mentioned so often today .
he needs the same -- he needs love and pleasure , and it &apos;s up to us to give these things .
thank you .
imagine a big explosion as they go up to 1,000 meters .
imagine an airplane full of smoke .
imagine a power station , the clap , clap , clap , clap , clap , clap , clap , clap .
that sounds frightening .
well , i had a unique place that day ; i was sitting on 1d .
i was the only one who could talk to the flight companions .
so i looked at them in a moment , and they said , &quot; no problem , we probably got some birds . &quot;
in each step , we &apos;ve produced these pieces in the surplus so that we could sequence them , because we tried to create a very robust process , which you &apos;ll see in a minute .
the pilot had already turned the machine on , and we were not that far away .
you could see manhattan .
two minutes later , three things happened at the same time .
the pilot ran the machine after the hudson river .
that &apos;s not usually the route .
he turns off the drives .
imagine a noiseless airplane .
and then he said three words -- the most iconic words i &apos;ve ever heard .
he says , &quot; ready to jump up . &quot;
i didn &apos;t have to talk to the board staff anymore .
we tried to get to the point of automation .
i could see it in her eyes , there was a terror , life was over .
now i want to share with you three things that i learned about myself that day .
i learned that in a moment everything is different .
we have this plan of life , we have these things that we want to do in life , and i thought about all the people that i wanted to reach , and i didn &apos;t do it , all the fences that i wanted to flick , all the experiences that i wanted to do and never did .
and as i was thinking about it later , i came up with a phrase that says , &quot; i &apos;m collecting bad wine . &quot;
because if the wine is there , and the person is there , i open it up .
i never want to do anything else in life .
and this urgency , this goal , really changed my life .
the second thing that i learned that day -- and that &apos;s when we missed the george washington bridge , pretty much around hair range -- i thought , man , there &apos;s one thing i really regret .
i had a good life .
so this looks like a basketball playoff .
in my own humanity , and with my mistakes , i aspired to get better in everything i was attacking .
but in my humanity , i also gave my ego space .
and i regretted the time i wasted for meaningless things , with people who mean something .
and i thought about the relationship with my wife , to friends , to people .
and after that , when i was thinking about it , i decided to ban negative energy from my life .
it &apos;s not perfect , but it &apos;s much better .
i didn &apos;t argue with my wife for two years anymore .
it feels great .
i &apos;m not trying to be right anymore ; i decide to be happy .
the third thing i learned -- and that is , as the internal clock begins to count , &quot; 15 , 14 , 13 , &quot; ...
when we get to these really big pieces -- with over 100,000 base pairs -- they &apos;re not just going to grow in e. coli . it &apos;s overcoming all the possibilities of modern molecular biology . and so we turned to other mechanisms .
you see the water coming .
i said , &quot; please fly in the air . &quot;
i don &apos;t want this thing to break down into 20 pieces , as you know from documentaries .
as we fall down , i had this feeling of dying , man , is not terrifying .
almost as if we were preparing our lives for it .
but it was very sad .
i didn &apos;t want to go ; i love my life .
and that sadness really formed in a thought , which is that i just wish one thing to do .
i just wish i could see my kids grow up .
about a month after that , i went to see a performance of my daughter -- first graders , not a lot of artistic talent ...
we knew about a mechanism called the homologist recombination , which uses biology to repair dna that can put together pieces like this .
... not yet .
and i celebrate , i cry like a little kid .
and in the world , everything made sense of me .
i realized at the time , by connecting the dots together , that life is just about being a great father .
more than anything , everything else , my only goal in life is to be a good father .
i became the miracle of not dying that day .
i got another gift , which is to look into the future and come back and live differently .
my call to all of you who are flying today is , imagine that the same thing is happening on your flight -- please don &apos;t -- but imagine , and how would you change ?
what would you do that you put up because you think you were there forever ?
how would you change your relationships , and the negative energy in it ?
here &apos;s an example of it . there &apos;s an organism called deinococcus radiodurans , which is three million rays of radiation .
and more than anything else , are you the best parents you can only be ?
thank you .
the idea behind the stuxnet computer worm is quite simple .
we don &apos;t want iran to build the bomb .
the most important post there for the development of nuclear weapons is the uranium incentive facility in natance .
the gray boxes that you see here are real-time control systems .
now , if we can commit the systems that control the numbers and the valves , we can actually do a lot of problems with the centrifuge .
these gray boxes don &apos;t run with windows software ; they &apos;re based on a completely different technology .
but if we &apos;re able to make an effective windows-virus on a laptop that &apos;s used by a warning engineer to configure this gray box , then we &apos;re in the business .
and that &apos;s the planning behind stuxnet .
you can see in the upper field that his chromosome just drops apart .
so we start with a windows dryer .
the usage data is transferred into the gray box , damages the centrifuge and the iranian nuclear energy program is delayed -- commission .
this is a child &apos;s game , right ?
i want to tell you how we found this out .
when we started doing our research six months ago , it was completely unknown , which was the purpose of this construction .
the only thing that we knew is very , very complicated in terms of the windows part , the dropper-part , he made countless cerol , djelly used .
and it seemed to have something to do with these gray boxes , these real-time control systems .
this attracted our attention , and we started a lab project where we infected our environment with stuxnet , and we studied this one .
and then something weird happened .
stuxnet behaved like a lab rat that didn &apos;t like our cheese -- sniffed it , but didn &apos;t want to eat it .
12 to 24 hours later , everything has recongregated as it was .
it didn &apos;t make any sense in my eyes .
and after experimenting with different kinds of cheese , i realized this was a target attack .
completely focused on a particular goal .
the dropper is active on the gray box when a special configuration was discovered , even when the particular program that &apos;s trying to infect is going on this goal .
and if it doesn &apos;t , then stuxnet does nothing .
so , this really got my interest , and we started working with this , almost around the clock , because i thought , well , we don &apos;t know what the goal is .
it could be , for example , a us-american power plant , or a chemical plant in germany .
so we should soon figure out what the goal is .
so we extracted and decomposed the attacks code , and we found that it &apos;s mapped into two digital warheads -- a smaller one and a bigger one .
and we also noticed that they were very professionally constructed by people who obviously had all the insider information available .
we have thousands of organisms that can do that .
they knew all the bits and bytes they had to attack .
they probably even knew the size of the machine operator .
so they knew everything .
and if you &apos;ve heard that the dropper of stuxnet is complex and high-tech , let me tell you , the usage data is a science itself .
it &apos;s much more sophisticated than anything we &apos;ve ever seen .
here &apos;s an excerpt from this attack code .
we &apos;re talking about -- about 15,000 lines of code .
it looks pretty much like old-fashioned assembler language .
and i want to tell you how we were able to get out of this code .
so what we were looking for first was systems work calls , because we know what they do .
their hunters were able to smell the urine of a 40 steps away and determine what kind of animal that belonged to .
these organisms can be totally dry , they can even live in the vacuum .
and then we looked for timers and data structures and tried to connect them to the real world -- with potential goals in the real world .
so we needed theories about these goals that we could demonstrate or disprove .
in order to make these theories , we remember that it &apos;s definitely high-level sabotage , it has to be a high-quality goal , and very likely it &apos;s iran , because there &apos;s most infections that have been reported .
well , there are not several thousand targets in this area .
basically , it goes out to the bushell nuclear power plant and the uranium incentives in natance .
so i said to my assistant , &quot; take me a list of all the experts for centrifuge and power plants from our client stem . &quot;
and i called her up , and i tapped her knowledge to compare her expertise to what we found in the code and in the data .
and that worked very well .
so , we were able to connect the little digital warhead with the rotor control .
the rotor is this moving part within the centrifuge , this black object that you see .
i &apos;m absolutely sure that life can exist and move in space , looking for aquatic conditions .
and if you manipulate the speed of this rotor , you &apos;re actually able to crack the rotor , and eventually even explode the centrifuge .
what we &apos;ve also found is that the goal of attacking was to actually make it happen slowly and insanely -- obviously in trying to make waiting engineers desperate , so they wouldn &apos;t be able to get behind it quickly .
the big digital warhead -- we got a glimpse by looking at very precisely data and data structures .
so , for example , the number 164 is really sticking out of this code ; you can &apos;t overlook it .
i started working through scientific literature about how these centrifuges are built in natance , and found that they &apos;re structured in what we call the cascades , and each cascade contains 164 centrifuge .
so that made sense , it fits together .
and it got better .
these centrifuges in iran are divided into 15 so-called levels .
and guess what we found in the attacks code ?
it &apos;s an almost identical structure .
in fact , nasa has shown that there &apos;s a lot of it out there .
so again , that matched really well together .
and this gave us great confidence for what we were looking at here .
now , don &apos;t get me wrong , it didn &apos;t just go like that .
these results have been achieved through several weeks of hard work .
and often we just ran into a dead end and had to recollect ourselves .
anyway , we found that both digital warheads were actually heading for one and the same goal , but from different directions .
the little warhead takes over a cascade , and turns over the rotors and slows them down , and the big warhead comes in with six cascades of interaction and manipulates valves .
so , by and large , we &apos;re very confident that we actually have determined what the goal is .
it &apos;s sovereignty , and it &apos;s just nail .
so we don &apos;t have to worry that other goals could be hit by stuxnet .
here &apos;s a feature shot of the molecule that we made using these processes -- actually , we just used leftover mechanisms with the right design of the pieces , and yeast adds them automatically together .
here &apos;s something really cool that we &apos;ve discovered -- really blew me out of the socks .
there &apos;s the gray box down there , and on the top you see the centrifuge .
now , what this thing does is it captures the incoming values of sensors -- so , for example , printing sensors and vibrational sensors -- and it provides legitimate code that runs during the attack , with false data .
and in fact , this false data from stuxnet is already recorded before .
so it &apos;s just like hollywood movies , where , during the hunt , the monitoring camera is fed with video footage before it &apos;s recorded .
that &apos;s cool , right ?
the idea here is not just , obviously , the machine operators in the control room .
in fact , it &apos;s much more dangerous and aggressive .
the idea is to overcome a digital security system .
we need digital security systems where a human machine operator can &apos;t respond fast enough .
this is not an electron microscope , it &apos;s a regular microscope shot .
so in a power plant , for example , when the big steam turbine gets too fast , you have to open up deposit valves within a milliseconds .
of course , this can &apos;t be done by a human machine leader .
so at this point , we need digital security systems .
and if they &apos;re at risk , then really bad things can happen .
the power plant can explode .
and neither the machine leaders , nor the security system will notice it .
that &apos;s frightening .
but it gets worse .
and what i &apos;m saying now is very important .
think about it . this attack is generic .
it &apos;s such a big molecule that we can even see it with the light microscope .
he has nothing to do with centrifuge , with uranium instructions .
so , for example , he would work as well -- in a power plant , or in a car factory .
it &apos;s generic .
and you don &apos;t have to -- as the attacker -- you don &apos;t have to put the user data on a usb stick , as we saw at stuxnet .
you could also use ordinary worm technology to spread .
you just have to spread it as far as you can .
and when you do that , you end up with a cyber weapon of mass destruction .
that &apos;s the consequence that we have to ask ourselves .
so unfortunately , the biggest number of goals for these kinds of attacks is not in the middle east .
they &apos;re in the united states , in europe and japan .
this is a six-second record .
so all these green areas , these are the most targeted environments .
we have to set the consequences , and we better start preparing ourselves .
thank you .
i have a question .
ralph , a lot of it was reported that people assume that the mossad is the main organization behind it .
is that your opinion too ?
okay , you really want to know that ?
yeah . okay .
i think the mossad is involved , but the driving force is not israel .
so the driving force behind is the cyber superpower .
this is the publication that we just recently completed .
there &apos;s only one , and that &apos;s the united states -- fortunately , luckily .
because otherwise our problem would be even bigger .
thank you for chasing us a fear of heating . thank you ralph .
i &apos;ve spent the last few years putting myself in situations that are usually very difficult , and at the same time kind of dangerous .
i went to jail -- difficult .
i worked in a coal mining -- dangerous .
i filmed in war areas -- difficult and dangerous .
and i spent 30 days eating nothing but this -- fun at the beginning , a little bit difficult in the middle , very dangerous at the end .
in fact , i &apos;ve exposed myself to most of my career to the appearance of terrible situations , and that &apos;s just for trying to study social issues that are engaging and interesting , and hopefully , in a way , understand what makes them fun and accessible to the audience .
so when i knew i was going to come here to look at the world of branding and sponsoring , i knew i was going to do something a little different .
this is over 580,000 letters of genetic code . it &apos;s the largest molecule with defined structure ever created by humans .
some of you may have heard about the fact that a few weeks ago , i turned on an ad on ebay .
i sent out some facebook messages , some twitter messages , and i gave people the opportunity to get the name rights on my tedtalk 2011 .
in fact , some happy people and companies , for-profit and non-profits , got the unique opportunity -- because i &apos;m sure chris anderson will never let it go -- to buy the name rights on the talk that you just see , which at that point didn &apos;t have a title or a lot of content , and not a lot of evidence of what the subject would be .
so what you got was this : your name presented here : my tedtalk , which you have no idea what this is going to be , and it could fly around your ears after content , especially if i let your company stand dumb for your participation .
but besides that , it &apos;s a very good media opportunity .
do you know how many people are watching these tedtalks ?
a lot .
this is just the title of labor , by the way .
so despite that warning , i knew that anyone would buy the name rights .
now , if you had asked me this a year ago , i wouldn &apos;t have been able to tell you this with certainty .
it has a molecular weight of over 300 million .
but in the new project that i &apos;m working on , my new film , we &apos;re studying the world of marketing , advertising .
as i said , over the course of the years , i &apos;ve been in some pretty terrible situations , but nothing could prepare me , nothing could help me to go into something as difficult and as dangerous as these guys in a room .
you know , i had the idea for a movie .
what i want to do is make a film around product placement , marketing and advertising , where the whole movie is funded by product placement , marketing and advertising .
and the movie will be called &quot; the greatest movie ever sold . &quot;
so what happens in &quot; the greatest movie ever sold , &quot; is that everything from top to bottom , from beginning to end , is completely with brands -- from the front sponsor you &apos;re going to see in the movie , that &apos;s the brand x .
now this brand , the qualcomm stadium , the staples center ...
these people will be connected to the movie in eternity forever .
and so the film will study this whole idea -- this is what ? in eternity , forever ?
i &apos;m a redundant person .
in the early &apos; 80s , i got a really amazing job when my professor at harvard asked me if i was interested in going to haiti and infiltrating the secret societies that were the foundation of duvalier and tonton macoutes and the poison that was used to make zombies .
if we were to print it in size 10 and without distances , it would encompass 142 pages just to print this genetic code .
that was more for emphasis .
it was &quot; in eternity , forever . &quot;
but we &apos;re not just going to have the brand x as a cover sponsor , but we &apos;re going to make sure that we &apos;re going to sell every category in the movie .
so maybe we sell a shoe , and it becomes the greatest shoe you &apos;ve ever worn ...
the greatest car you &apos;ve ever driven from &quot; the greatest movie ever sold , &quot; the greatest drink you &apos;ve ever had , a attention from &quot; the greatest movie ever . &quot;
so the idea is , aside from showing that brands are part of life , actually , getting them to fund the movie ?
and we actually show the whole process of how it works .
the goal of the whole film is transparency .
you &apos;ll see the whole thing going on in the movie of stats .
so that &apos;s the whole concept , the whole film , from beginning to end .
now , how do we start a chromosome ? how do we activate it ?
and i would be happy if ceg helped to do this .
you know , it &apos;s funny , because when i first heard it , it &apos;s the ultimate respect for the audience .
but i don &apos;t know how receiving people are going to be .
do you have a perspective -- i don &apos;t want to use &quot; perspective , &quot; because that has a negative connotation -- but you know how this is going to evolve ?
how much money is needed to realize that ?
1.5 million .
i think it &apos;s hard to meet them , but i think it &apos;s definitely worth addressing some really familiar brands .
who knows when the movie comes out , we might look like a horde vollidiot .
what do you think the answer will be ?
the answer will be extremely likely to be no .
obviously , it &apos;s very simple with a virus . it &apos;s much more complicated to deal with bacteria .
but is it a difficult thing to do because of the movie or a difficult thing for me ?
jk : both .
... so , not so optimistic .
so , sir , can you help me ? i need help .
i can help .
okay .
fantastic .
we need to think about what brands are .
yeah .
if you look at the people you have to do with ...
it &apos;s just as easier when you do it in eukaryonts as we are , you just take out the nucleus and you put another one in it , and that &apos;s exactly what you &apos;ve all heard about the clones .
there are some places that we can turn to .
put the camera out .
i thought , &quot; put the camera out &quot; would mean that we wanted to have a background conversation .
it turned out that it really meant , &quot; we don &apos;t want to have anything to do with your movie . &quot;
and just like that , all these companies disappeared , one after the other .
i didn &apos;t want to have something to do with the movie .
i was amazed .
they wanted absolutely nothing to do with the project .
and i was confused because i thought the whole concept , the idea of advertising , of presenting your product to as many people as possible , making it as many people as possible .
especially in today &apos;s world , in this intersection of new and old media and the fragmented media landscape -- it &apos;s not the idea of being in this new exciting medium instrument that will bring the masses this message .
in archaebacteria , the chromosome is integrated into the cell , but only recently we &apos;ve shown that you can take a complete transplant from one chromosome to the other and activate them .
no , that &apos;s what i thought .
but you see , the problem was that my idea had a fatal mistake , and that was the following .
in fact , no , that wasn &apos;t the mistake at all .
that wouldn &apos;t have been a problem at all .
that would have been okay .
but what this picture is for is a problem .
you see , if you put transparency in google search , this is -- this is one of the first images that comes out .
i really like your kind , sergey brin . now .
that was the problem : transparency -- free of deception and bags , just discovering and looking through -- immediately understandable , characterized by visibility and access to information , especially in terms of business practices -- the last line is certainly the biggest problem .
you know , we &apos;re hearing a lot about transparency right now .
we cleaned up the chromosome of a microbial species , and in general , these two are as far apart as humans and mice , and we gave some extra genes to choose this chromosome , and we deployed it with enzymes to destroy all the proteins , and it was very amazing when we put it in a cell -- and they &apos;re going to estimate our very sophisticated graphics here .
our politicians say it , our president says it , even our ceos say it .
but when it comes to the point that it should be implemented , something changes .
but why ? well , transparency is scary -- like this strange bear that still breaks .
it &apos;s unpredictable -- like this strange highway .
and she &apos;s also very risky .
what else is risky ?
eat a whole bowl of cool whip .
this is very risky .
so when i started talking to the companies and telling them that we wanted to tell this story , they said , &quot; no , we want you to tell a story .
we want you to tell a story , but we just want you to tell our story . &quot;
the new chromosome went into the cell .
you see , when i was a kid and my father caught me lying -- and he &apos;s sitting there looking at me with this view -- he would say , &quot; my son , there are three versions in every story .
there &apos;s your version , there &apos;s my version , and there &apos;s the real version . &quot;
so you see , with this film , we wanted to tell the real version .
but since only one company , one agency , was willing to help us -- and it was just because i know john bond and richard kirshenberg tree for years -- i realized that i had to do it alone , i had to deal with the middle-man and go right to the companies with my team .
so what they started to understand -- or what i started to understand -- was that when you start talking to these companies , the idea of how your brand is understood is a profound problem .
i have friends making big , gigantic hollywood movies , and i have friends making little independent movies like me .
and my friends , who make big , gigantic hollywood movies , say that the reason their films are so successful , is because of the brand partners they have .
and then my friends , who make little independent movies , say , &quot; well , how do we compete with these big , giant hollywood movies ? &quot;
and the movie is called &quot; the greatest movie ever sold . &quot;
so how exactly are we going to see ban in the movie ?
in fact , we thought this was the end , but we tried to bring the process a little bit further .
whenever i go on the way , and whenever i open the medical closet , you &apos;ll see ban deodorant .
and every time i interview someone , i can say , &quot; are you fresh enough for this interview ?
are they there ? they look a little nervous .
i want to help you calm down .
so maybe you should put a little bit of this in front of the interview . &quot;
and then we offer one of these great dunes .
either &quot; florfusion &quot; or &quot; paradise winds , &quot; you &apos;ll have a choice .
we &apos;re going to be equipped for both men and for women -- solid , roll-on , or a stick , whatever .
this is the shortcut .
now , i can answer all of your questions and give you a full-blown socket .
this is the main mechanism of evolution here .
we &apos;re a smaller brand .
as you &apos;ve talked about the smaller films , we &apos;re a challenge as a brand .
so we don &apos;t have a budget like other brands .
so doing these things -- you know , people remember ban -- that &apos;s kind of why we &apos;re interested .
what words would you describe in ban ?
ban is blank .
that &apos;s a great question .
overlived technology .
technology is not the way you should describe something that someone does under the aches .
we talk about bold , fresh .
we find all kinds of species here that have taken a second chromosome or a third of anywhere , adding thousands of characteristics in just a second to a species .
i think &quot; fresh &quot; is a great word that this category really makes something positive , as opposed to &quot; fight smell and humidity . &quot;
it keeps you fresh .
how can we keep them fresh longer -- better fresh , more fresh , three times fresh .
these things have a more positive effect .
and this is a million-company .
what about me ? what about the printing types ?
i have to talk to the man on the street , who are like me , otto normal consumers .
you should tell me something about my brand .
how would you describe your brand ?
hmmm , my brand ?
in order to make sense of this sensation , of course , i had to know something about this remarkable belief of the vodoun , and voodoo is not a cult of black magic .
so people who think of evolution as a gene that will have changed at some point in time , have missed a lot of biology .
i don &apos;t know .
i really like beautiful clothing .
80s revival hits skaterpunk , except on the washday .
all right , what &apos;s the brand gerry ?
unique .
i think the genre , the style i have , is probably &quot; dark glamour . &quot;
i like a lot of black colors , a lot of gray notes and stuff like that .
but usually i have an accessory , like sunglasses , or a jewelry and stuff like that .
if dan was a brand , he would probably be a classic mercedes cabrio .
the brand i am is , i would say , cheaply fly .
there are enzymes called restriction enzymes that actually digest dna .
partly hippie , partly yogi , partly brooklyn-girls -- i don &apos;t know .
man 3 : i &apos;m the museum guy .
i sell schmuseum animals all over the country , worldwide .
so i think that &apos;s my brand .
this is my brand in my little , distorted industry .
man 4 : my brand is fedex , because i was exposed .
man 5 : brand scholarship alcohol addicted writer .
is that possible ?
lawyer : i &apos;m a lawyer &apos;s brand .
i &apos;m tom .
the chromosome that was in the cell has no one ; the chromosomes that we &apos;ve added already .
now , we can &apos;t all be the tom-marks , but i often see myself at the interfaces of dark glamour and convenient flies .
and what was noticed was that i needed an expert .
i needed somebody who could penetrate in my head , somebody who could really help me understand what &apos;s called the &quot; brand personality . &quot;
and so i found a company called olson zaltman in pittsburg .
they &apos;ve helped companies like nests , fatty , hallmark , discover this brand personality .
if they could do it for those , they could certainly help me .
they brought their pictures , right ?
i have that . the first picture is a picture of my family .
just tell me a little bit about how this is connected to your thoughts and feelings about you .
these are the people who shape my worldview .
it was exposed in the cell , and it recognized the other chromosome as a foreign material , and so we ended up with just a cell with a new chromosome .
tell me about this world .
md : this world ? i think your own world is the world you live in -- like people around you , the friends , the family , the way you live your life , the work and so on .
all of these things come and start from a place , and for me , they come and they start with my family in west virginia .
what &apos;s the next thing you want to talk about .
next . this was the most beautiful day of my life .
what &apos;s the relationship between the thoughts and feelings about them ?
it &apos;s the way i &apos;d like to be .
i like things that are different .
i like things that are weird . i like weird things .
tell me about the &quot; why &quot; phase -- what does it bring us ?
it was coloring blue because of the genes that we had added .
what &apos;s the machete ? what puppetry are you in right now ?
why is it important to reboot ? what is the red ?
tell me a little bit about this part .
a little bit more about you , that &apos;s not you .
what other metamorphosis did you go through ?
... that doesn &apos;t have to be frightened . what kind of rollercoaster are you in ?
eeeeeeeeeeeeeeee ! no , thank you .
thank you for your patience .
yeah . all right .
yeah , i don &apos;t know what it &apos;s going to be .
and after a very short time , it had lost all the characteristics of the species and converted completely into a new species based on the new software that we put into the cell .
there were a lot of crazy things going on .
the first thing that i saw was this idea that their brand personality has separated two , but it has supplementary pages -- the morgan spurlock brand is an eight-by-one playful brand .
they &apos;re very good at it .
and i think there &apos;s almost a contradiction with that .
and i think some companies will just focus on one strength , rather than both of them .
a lot of companies tend to -- and this is human nature -- avoiding things that they &apos;re not sure they &apos;re afraid , they &apos;re going to avoid these elements , and they &apos;re going to welcome them , and they &apos;re actually turning them into something positive for themselves , and that &apos;s a skilled chess .
what other brands are doing ?
the first one is a classic , apple .
and you can also see here , target , wii , mini of mini coopers and jetblue .
well , there are playful brands and eight brands , these things that come and go , but a playful , eight brand is a pretty strong thing .
all the proteins changed -- when we read the genetic code , it was exactly what we transferred .
an eight , playful brand . how is your brand ?
if somebody asked you to describe your brand identity , your brand personality , how would it be ?
are you an up-attribute ? are you something that brings blood to the walls ?
or are they more of a down-attribute ?
are you something a little bit more quiet , reservative , more conservative ?
up-attributes are things that are playful , fresh like the fresh prince , timely , adventurous and lovely like erol flynn , agile , profan , magical and mystical like gandalf .
or are they more like a down-attribute ?
are you mindful and moonlight like 007 ?
are they established , traditionally , nurturing , protecting , compassionate like oprah ?
are they reliable , stable , family , sure , born , holy , considerable , considerable and wise like the dalai lama or yoda ?
it may sound like genomic alchimie , but we can , by shifting software dna , change things quite dramatically .
in the course of the movie , we had more than 500 companies that were up and down companies , and they said no , because they didn &apos;t want to be part of the project .
they didn &apos;t want to have anything to do with this film , because they didn &apos;t have control , no control over the finished product .
but it was found 17 brand partners who were willing to get control of this , who wanted to do business with somebody as mindful and as playful as i did , and who eventually enabled us to tell stories that we usually couldn &apos;t have told -- stories that a commercial would never normally support .
they enabled us to tell the story of neuromarketing , as we tell the story in this movie , that today , you use mri to tackle the funeral centers of the brain , both to make advertising and to make films .
we went to sao paulo , where foreign advertising has been banned .
in the entire city , for five years , there &apos;s no timeline afel , no poster , no flyer , nothing .
and we were driving in school districts where companies are getting their way into impoverished schools , all across america .
the incredible thing for me is that the projects that i got the most feedback from , or where i got the biggest success , are the ones where i was directly interacting with things .
and that &apos;s what these brands did .
because they went around the middle man , they went around the agencies , and they said that maybe the agencies don &apos;t really have their interest in the mind .
now i &apos;ve argued that this is not the genesis -- this is based on 3.5 billion years of evolution .
i &apos;m going to negotiate with the artist directly .
i &apos;m going to work with him and create something completely different , something that makes people think that our world is challenging .
and how was that successful for them ? what was it ?
now , since the movie had premiered at the sundance film festival , we can look at this .
according to burrelle , the premiere was in january , and since -- and that &apos;s not even the whole thing -- there were 900 million calls from this film .
this is actually just a two-and-a-half weeks period .
this is just online -- no press , no television .
the film hasn &apos;t been delivered yet .
it &apos;s not even online . it &apos;s not streaming .
he hasn &apos;t come out in other countries yet .
and i &apos;ve argued that we might be able to create a new form of the cambrian explosion , where there could be massive new species education based on this digital design .
well , finally , the film has gained a very big momentum .
and that &apos;s not bad for a project where almost every advertising agency we talked to has recommended their customers to get their fingers from it .
one of the things that i believe in is that when you take your opportunity , you take risks that are in these risks .
i think if you keep people from it , you get them closer to failure .
i think that when you train your employees to avoid risk , you &apos;re preparing the whole company to get a profit .
i feel that when we move forward , we need to encourage people to take risks .
we need to encourage people not to be afraid of opportunities that might scare them .
finally , when we move forward , we should welcome fear .
we should put the bear in the cage .
welcome the fear . welcome the risk .
on the contrary , it &apos;s a complex metaphysical world view .
why should we do that ?
each one is a big spoon full , so we welcome the risk .
and finally , we should welcome transparency .
today , more than ever before , it brings us a little bit of honesty .
and that said , with honesty and transparency , my whole talk &quot; welcome transparency &quot; was presented to you by my good friends at emc who paid $ 7100 for the name rights on ebay .
big data is transformed for organizations around the world into big opportunities .
emc : &quot; welcome transparency &quot;
thank you .
now , morgan , in the name of transparency , what happened with the $ 7100 ?
that &apos;s a great question .
i have a check in my pocket , put on the top organization of the ted organization , the sapling foundation -- a $ 7100 check to fund my ted performance next year .
i think it &apos;s pretty obvious in terms of what we need .
my name is amit .
18 months ago , i did something else at google , and i started doing something with museums and art , and my chief , who is now , gave me a green light .
and it took 18 months .
a lot of fun negotiations and stories , i can tell you , with 17 very interesting museums from nine countries .
but i &apos;m going to focus on the demo .
there &apos;s a lot of stories about why we did this .
i think my personal view is very simple with this slide and access .
i grew up in india .
i became a great education -- i don &apos;t complain -- but i had too many museums and these works of art .
so when i was traveling and visiting these museums , i started learning a lot .
we &apos;re growing from six and a half billion to nine billion people in the next 40 years .
and while i was working for google , i was trying to make this desire -- to make art more accessible -- to bring technology together .
we then formed a team , a great team , and we started with this .
i &apos;m going to start with the demonstration , and tell you some interesting things that happened since the launch .
so you just go to google project.com .
you can look around in all these museums here .
there &apos;s the uffizi , the moma , the hermitage , the rijks , the van gogh .
i even come to one of my favorite , the metropolitan museum of art in new york .
you get in two ways -- very simple .
click , and wumms , you &apos;re in this museum .
it doesn &apos;t matter where you are -- bombay , mexico , it doesn &apos;t matter .
to put it in my context , i was born in 1946 .
you go around and you amuse yourself .
they want to orient in the museum ?
open the map , and jump with a click .
they &apos;re in there , they want to go to the end of the gang .
just further . a lot of fun .
put them up .
thank you , but the best one is still coming .
so now i &apos;m in front of one of my favorite pictures , harvest workers from pieter breugel in the met .
i see this plushing sign .
when the museum has given us the picture , they click on it .
today , three people on this planet are for anyone who has existed in 1946 ; within 40 years , it will be four .
now this is one of the images .
this is all metadata .
those of you who are really interested in art can click here -- but i &apos;m going to click it away now .
this is one of the images that we &apos;ve captured with what &apos;s called the gigapix technology .
this picture , for example , has about 10 billion points of imagery , i think .
and a lot of people ask me , &quot; what do you get for 10 billion points of imagery ? &quot;
this is what i &apos;m going to show you now .
you can zoom in very easily and out .
you see something fun here .
i love this guy ; his expression is unaffordable .
we have problems with food , with fresh water and clean water , medicine , fuel for 6.5 billion people .
but then you really want to go deep in .
and so i started playing around , and i realized that something was going on there .
and i thought , &quot; wait a minute , that sounds interesting . &quot;
i went close , and i slowly realized that these kids actually beat something .
i did some research on the met a little bit , and i actually found out that it was a game called squail , which is a gans on the fast day with a stick .
it seemed to be quite popular .
i don &apos;t know why they did it , but i learned something about it .
to go really close , you can go to the cracks .
just to give you the overview , i zoom out so you can see what you get .
here we were , and this is the painting .
it &apos;s going to be a challenge to offer that for nine .
the best part is -- in a second .
let &apos;s jump quickly to moma , again , in new york .
another favorite picture of me , star night .
the previous example was about finding detail .
but what if you want to see the paintbrush strikes ?
and what &apos;s only when you want to see van gogh creating this masterpiece ?
you zoomed in . you can actually go in .
i &apos;m going to zoom in on one of my favorite parts of this picture until i &apos;m really at the cracks .
this is star night , probably never seen this way before .
now i &apos;m going to show you my favorite function .
we need over five billion tons of coal , 30-plus billion barrels of oil . that &apos;s a hundred million barrels a day .
there are many more , but i don &apos;t have time .
that &apos;s the really cool part , it &apos;s called collections .
every one of you , every one of you -- just like rich or poor , whether you have a great house -- doesn &apos;t matter .
you can go and create your own museum online -- from all these images , you can put your own collection .
very simply , you go in -- and i created this , it &apos;s called the power of the zoom -- you can zoom in .
this is &quot; the donation , &quot; in the national allery .
you can miss everything with remarks , send your friends , and start a conversation about what you feel when you look at these masterpieces .
i think , finally , to me , the main thing is that all the wonderful things here don &apos;t come from google .
they don &apos;t even come from the museums , i think .
i shouldn &apos;t say that .
when we think about biological processes , or any process to replace that , it becomes a huge challenge .
they come from the artists .
and that was an experience of humility for me .
i mean , i hope we &apos;re going to talk to this digital medium of art , and represent it online properly .
and the biggest question that i &apos;m asked recently is , &quot; did you do that to replicate the experience of a museum visit ? &quot;
the answer to that is no .
it &apos;s supposed to add the experience .
that &apos;s what it &apos;s about . thank you .
thank you .
this is a representation of your brain . your brain can be divided into two halves .
this is the left half , which is the logical side , and then the right half , which is the intuitive side .
then , of course , there &apos;s all the co2 from this material that goes into the atmosphere .
if we had a scale to measure the aptites of every hemisphere , we could represent their brain .
for example , this would be somebody who &apos;s completely logical .
this would be somebody who &apos;s completely intuitive .
now , where would you put your brain on this scale ?
some of us may have chosen one of these extremes , but i think that , for most people in the audience , your brain looks something like this -- with a high apple that &apos;s in both hemisphere at the same time .
it &apos;s not like they &apos;re both exclusive or something like that .
they can be logical and intuitive .
and so i think of myself as one of the people , along with most other experimental quantum physicists , who need a good percentage of logic to put together the complex ideas .
but at the same time , we need a good percentage of intuition to actually do the experiments .
how do we develop this intuition ? well , we love to play with things .
it &apos;s interesting .
we now have , from our discoveries around the world , a database of about 20 million genes , and i want to believe that these are the design components of the future .
so we go out and play with it and then we see how it reacts , and then we start to develop our intuition there .
basically , they do the same thing .
so one of the intuitions that you &apos;ve developed over the years is probably that one thing can only be in one place at the same time .
i mean , it can sound strange to think that one thing is at the same time in two different places , but they weren &apos;t born with this idea ; they developed it .
i remember seeing a child play on a ground threshold .
he was a little kid , and he wasn &apos;t very good at it , and he fell in all the time .
but i bet that playing with the ground threshold taught him a very valuable lesson , which is that big things don &apos;t just let you over , and they stay in one place .
and that &apos;s a great conceptual model of the world , as long as they &apos;re not a particle physicist .
it would be a terrible model for a particle physicist , because they &apos;re not playing with groundscapes , but with these little strange particles .
and when you play with your particles , you find all kinds of weird things -- like you fly directly through walls , or you can be in two different places at the same time .
the electronics industry had a dozen components , and look at the diversity that came out of it .
and so they wrote down all these observations , and they called them the theory of quantum mechanics .
this was the state of physics a few years ago ; it took quantum mechanics to describe the little , tiny particles .
but it didn &apos;t take them to describe the big everyday objects around us .
it didn &apos;t like my intuition , and maybe it &apos;s just because i don &apos;t play with particles that often .
well , i sometimes play with them , but not very often .
and i &apos;ve never seen them .
i mean , nobody has ever seen a particle .
but my logical side didn &apos;t like it either .
because if all of these things are made of particles , and all these particles follow the rules of quantum mechanics , shouldn &apos;t they just follow the rules of quantum mechanics ?
i don &apos;t see why it shouldn &apos;t be that way .
we &apos;re primarily bumping into the limits of biological reality and the way we think about it .
so i would feel better about the whole thing if somehow we could show that everyday objects also follow the rules of quantum mechanics .
so , a few years ago , i started doing exactly that .
i created one .
this is the first object you can see , which was in the quantum mechanical superposition .
so what we &apos;re looking at here is a tiny computer chip .
and you can see this green dot there in the middle .
this is the piece of metal i &apos;m going to talk about in a moment .
this is a picture of the object .
here i &apos;ll zoom in . we &apos;re looking in the center right here .
and here &apos;s a really big close-up of this little piece of metal .
we have technologies today because of these fast synthesiology methods to do what we call combinatorial genetics .
so what we look at is a little piece of metal shaped like a springboard , and it &apos;s over the edge .
so i made this thing in a similar way that you make a computer chip .
i went to a clean room with new silicon slices , and i racked 100 hours to all the big devices .
for the last bit , i had to build my own machine -- to get this kind of swimming pool of hole and the thing .
this thing has the ability to be in the quantum mechanical superposition , but it takes a little help to do it .
look , let me give you an analogy .
you know how uncomfortable it is to be in a full elevator ?
i mean , if i &apos;m alone in the elevator , i do all kinds of weird things , but then other people go up , and i listen to all these things because i don &apos;t want to hurt them , or , frankly , they disappear .
so quantum mechanics says that intractable objects feel the same .
the fellow drivers for intractable objects are not just humans , but also the light that shines on them , and the wind that &apos;s sweeping by them and the heat of space .
we now have the ability to build a large robot that can make millions of chromosomes a day .
and so we knew that if we wanted to see that this piece of metal behaves quantum mechanically , we had to kick out all the contributors .
and that &apos;s what we did .
we turned off the light , we put it in a vacuum , and we sucked out all the air , and we cooled it up until now , just in the elevator , the piece of metal was free to behave as it always wanted .
so we measured his movement .
we found that it was really strange .
instead of just being quiet there , it vibrated . the way it was vibrating was kind of like this -- like a stretching and collapsing bubble .
in which we gave him a little push , we were able to vibrate it at the same time and not vibrate -- something that &apos;s only allowed in quantum mechanics .
so what i &apos;m telling you right now is what &apos;s truly fantastic .
what does it mean to vibrate an object at the same time and not vibrate ?
let &apos;s think about the atoms .
if you can imagine making these 20 million different genes , or optimizing these processes to make octan , or to make new vaccines , we can change more molecular biology with a small team than the last 20 years of science .
so the first case : all the trillions of atoms that make up the piece of metal are still there , and at the same time the same atoms are moving up and down .
just to precise time points , you agree .
they &apos;re dolphin for the rest of the time .
that means that every atom is in two different places at the same time , which means that the whole piece of metal is in two different places .
i think that &apos;s really cool .
really .
this was worth closing in the clean room for all this year , because , check this , the massless difference between a single atom and this piece of metal is about the same as the difference between the piece of metal and you .
so if a single atom can be in two different places at the same time , this piece of metal can be in two different places , why not you ?
i mean , that &apos;s just what my logical side says .
so , imagine you &apos;re in a number of places at the same time , how would that feel ?
and it &apos;s just a little bit of selection . we can select for life skills , production of chemicals or fuel production , and so on .
how would your mind be that your body is delocated in space ?
there &apos;s another aspect of history .
when we warmed it up , turned on the light , and we looked in the box , we saw that the piece of metal was always there in a piece .
and so i had to develop this new intuition that it looks like all the objects in the elevator are really just quantum objects that are made together in a small room .
you hear a lot of talk about how quantum mechanics says that everything is connected to everything .
well , that &apos;s not quite right .
there &apos;s more to it , it &apos;s even deeper .
it &apos;s like these connections , their connections with all the things around them , literally define who they are , and that &apos;s the profound and strange of quantum mechanics .
thank you .
in 2007 , i decided that we should reconceptualize how we think about economic development .
this is a picture of actual design software that we &apos;re working on that you &apos;re actually sitting down with and designing new species on the computer .
it should be our goal that if families think about where they want to live and work , they &apos;re given the opportunity to choose between at least one hand of different cities that are all in competition for new residents .
at the moment , we are far from this goal .
there are billions of people in the developing world who don &apos;t even have a single city that they would welcome .
but the amazing thing about cities is that they &apos;re worth so much more than it costs to build them .
so we could very easily , with dumb , maybe even hundreds of new cities .
now this may sound absurd for you , as far as you &apos;ve never thought about new cities .
now , just swap the building of apartments against the cities .
imagine half of the people who want to live in apartments did this already ; the other half didn &apos;t yet .
you could try to expand the capacity of the existing apartments .
but you know what they would be engaged in , in these apartments and their environment , there are laws to avoid complaints and to deflect from execution .
you know , we don &apos;t necessarily know what it &apos;s going to look like . we know exactly what their genetic code is going to look like .
so it turns out to be very difficult to cope with all these extensions .
but you could go to a whole new place , build a whole new housing block , assumed that the laws there would support such a building and not prevent it .
so i proposed that governments create new areas that provide enough space for a city and gave them a name : charter cities .
i later found out that , around the same time , jafour and octavio , they were thinking about the challenge of reform in honduras .
they knew that every year about 75,000 hondurans left their country to go out to the united states , and they wanted to know what they could do to make sure that these people could stay in their country and do exactly the same thing in honduras .
at this point , ja4 said to octavio , &quot; what happens if we take an uncover area of our country -- what if we just give it a message -- a part of the american embassy , a part of the canadian bottleneck , and if people want to work under the canadian rules or the united states , they can work there , and they can do anything on the surface of these messages that they usually need to go to canada or america ? &quot;
in the summer of 2009 , honduras suffered from a severe prescription crisis .
in the next planned elections , pepe lobo won in a turnaround , whose program promised both novelty and simplification .
he asked octavio to become his stewardship .
in the meantime , i was preparing for a talk at tedglobal .
we &apos;re now focusing on the fuels of the fourth generation .
by improving , by trying , by studying consumers , i &apos;ve tried to reduce this complicated concept of charter city to the basic elements .
the first point is the importance of laws , laws that determine that you can &apos;t disturb existing housing owners .
we give new technologies great attention , but for progress , it needs technologies and laws , and it &apos;s common laws that keep us back .
in the fall of 2010 , a friend from guatemala octavio sent the link to the tedtalk .
and he showed him jafour .
they called me up .
and they said , &quot; let &apos;s present this to the chairman of our country . &quot;
so , in december , we met in the meeting room of a hotel in miami .
i tried to make it clear how valuable cities are to how much more valuable they are than they cost .
and i used this chart to show how valuable rohland is in a place like new york , and remember that in some cases , a surface is worth thousands of dollars per square meter .
we have to deal with the unstoppable separation of death , and so it shouldn &apos;t surprise us that we all sing , dancing and art .
if i asked you to count the big world religions , what would you say ?
you &apos;ve seen corn to ethanol recently , which is just a bad experiment .
but it was a pretty abstract discussion , at a point when there was a pause , octavio said , &quot; paul , maybe we could look at the tedtalk . &quot;
so the tedtalk , in a very simple form , was that a charter city is a place where the beginning of uninhabited land , a founding contract that determines the laws that exist , and gives people the opportunity to decide , either , to live under these rules or not .
that &apos;s why i was asked by the president of honduras , who said that we need to do this project , that it &apos;s important , and that this is the way we bring our country forward .
i was asked to come to tegucigalpa and give a talk again on the fourth and fifth of january .
so i gave another one with facts filled , which includes a graph like this , which tries to illustrate that if you want to create a lot of value in a city , it has to be a very large city .
this is a picture of the city of denver , and the sketch represents the new airport that was built in denver .
this airport alone has a surface of 100 square kilometers .
so i &apos;ve tried to convince the hondurans , if you want to build a new city , you have to start with an area of at least 1,000 square kilometers .
that &apos;s more than 250 thousand acres .
politely , everybody applauded .
we have second and third generation fuels that will come out pretty soon , that will have much higher sugar quality , like octan or different kinds of butanol .
the audience &apos;s faces were very serious and alert .
the head of congress came on stage and said , &quot; professor romer , thank you very much for your talk , but maybe we could look at the tedtalk .
i &apos;ve got it on my laptop here . &quot;
so i sat down , and you played the tedtalk .
and i &apos;ve come to the core statement that a new city offers new possibilities to people .
there would be a way to live in a city that would be in honduras , rather than hundreds of miles away in the north .
and a new city also includes new opportunities for leaders .
the leaders of the government in honduras would be dependent on the help of partnerships , they could benefit from their partner countries , who would support them to set up the laws for this charter , and in performing , that everyone could trust that the charter was really being implemented .
and the realization of president lobo was that the certainty of the translation that i was thinking about as a way to get the foreign investors to come and build this city could be equivalent to all the parties in honduras that have been under fear and abstruse for many years .
we went to an area .
but , as we think , the only way that biology will have a huge impact without further increases in the cost of food , or the limitation of their availability , is when we see co2 as an output material , and so we &apos;re working on cells that go this way .
this picture is from this place .
it &apos;s got a thousand square kilometers .
and shortly after that , on january 19th , they voted in congress for a change in the constitution to have a comprehensive rule , which is reliable for particular development areas .
in a country that has just been a major crisis , congress has been elected to make a voice with 124 to a voice .
all the parties , all the fractions of society , supported this .
in order to become part of the constitution , it has to be approved twice by congress .
on february 17th , it was approved at 114 to a voice .
immediately after this election , between the 21st and february 24th , a delegation of about 30 famines traveled to the two places in the world that were most interested in getting into the business of the city building .
one place is south korea .
this is a picture of a big , new city hall built in south korea -- big as the city of bostons .
and we think that we &apos;re going to be the first one with the fourth generation fuels in about 18 months .
everything you can see in this picture was built within four years after it took four years to get permits .
the other place that was very interested in building cities is singapore .
there have already been two cities built in china , and the third is in preparation .
so if you &apos;re basically thinking about it , it &apos;s where we are today .
they already have a building site , and they &apos;re already talking about this area for the second city .
it &apos;s already being worked on a legal system , that managers are allowed to participate , and it &apos;s also being worked on an external legal system .
a country has already offered its supreme court as a court for the decent appeal of the court system there .
also , urban designers and builders are very interested .
they even bring in funding .
one thing , as you already know , has been enlightened , there &apos;s a lot of rents .
sunlight and co2 are a method .
there are a lot of businesses that would like to engage in america , especially in a place with a free trade zone , and there are a lot of people who would like to live there .
all over the world , there are 700 million people who say they want to live in a different place permanently .
a million people are leaving latin america every year and traveling to the united states .
many of them are fathers who are forced to leave their families to find their work -- sometimes single mothers who have to earn enough money to be able to afford food and clothing .
unfortunately , sometimes even children who are trying to find their parents back , who they , in some cases , haven &apos;t seen them for a decade .
so what is it for an idea to think about in honduras to build a whole new city ?
or even building dumb of these cities , or distributing hundreds around the world ?
so what is it for an idea to insist that every family has a choice between several cities that are in competition for new residents ?
this is an idea worth spreading .
my friends from honduras asked me to say , thank you ted .
but in our discovery of the world , we have all sorts of different methods .
do you know how many decisions do you make on a typical day ?
do you know how many decisions do you make in a typical week ?
i did a survey recently with over 2,000 americans , and the average number of decisions that are attacked by a typical american in one day is 70 .
and also , a recent study was done with ceos , where they watched the ceos for a week .
and these scientists have just documented the different subjects that these ceo &apos;s dealing with , and how much time they spent making decisions that are related to the topics .
and they found that the average ceo is dealing with 139 tasks a week .
each of these topics , of course , was made up of many , many smaller decisions .
50 percent of their decisions were made in nine minutes or less .
only for about 12 percent of their decisions , they took an hour or more of their time .
think about your own decisions .
this is an organism that we described in 1996 .
do you know how many decisions do you make in the nine minutes of category versus those in the one hour of category ?
how good do you think you are at making the decisions ?
today i want to talk about one of the biggest decision-making problems of our modern time , the overload of decision-making problem .
i want to talk about the problem and some possible solutions .
now , when i talk about this problem , i &apos;m going to ask you some questions , and i want to know your answers .
if i ask you a question , raise your hand , because i &apos;m blind , only if you want to burn some calories .
otherwise , i ask you , if i ask you a question , and your answer is yes , so my first question for you today is , are you ready to hear about the overload of decision-making ?
thank you .
when i was a graduate student at stanford university , i went to this very exclusive grocery store ; at least at the time , he was really exclusive .
it was a store called draeger &apos;s .
it lives in the deep sea , about a mile and a half deep , at almost boiling water temperatures .
this business , it was almost like a pleasure savings .
they had 250 different kinds of mustard and essive and over 500 different kinds of fruits and vegetables and more than two dozen different kinds of water -- and that was at a time when we actually drunk water .
i loved going to this business , but at one point i wondered , well , how come you never buy anything ?
here &apos;s the olive oil going .
they had over 75 different kinds of olive oil , including those who were locked in boxes that came from a thousand years old olive trees .
so one day , i decided to go to the fililler , and i asked the ladder , &quot; does this model work , that you really offer people all these possibilities ? &quot;
and he pointed at the tourists buses that came every day and usually had their cameras .
we decided to do an experiment , and we chose marmelade for our experiment .
here &apos;s her martian gang .
they had 348 different kinds of marmelade .
it converts co2 into methane , using hydrogen as a source of energy .
we set up a little cost-effective ceiling right at the entrance of business .
we put six different flavors of marmelade there , or 24 different flavors of marmelade , and we looked at two things : one , what case would more people stand up and try marmelade ?
there are more people left when it was 24 , about 60 percent than when it was six , about 40 percent .
and after that , we looked at what case people were buying a glass of marmelade .
now we saw the reverse effect .
of the people who stood when it was 24 , only three percent actually bought a glass of marmelade .
of the people who were standing when it was six , well , now we saw that 30 percent of them actually bought a glass of marmelade .
well , when you calculate it , people bought six times more of a glass of marrow , who they had six choices than when they had 24 choices .
now , to decide not to buy a glass of marmelade is probably good for us -- at least it &apos;s good for our waistline -- but it turns out that the overlap problem also affects us in very consequence decisions .
we don &apos;t decide , even though it &apos;s against our own best interests .
we &apos;re looking at whether we can use stored co2 , which could just be brought to the production stores , convert co2 into fuel to drive this process .
so , the theme of the day : financial saving .
i &apos;m going to describe to you a study that i did with gur huberman , emir kamenica , wei jang , where we looked at the decisions to save for retirement of almost a million americans from about 650 plans across the united states .
and what we looked at was whether the number of fund commandments that were possible to a retirement plan , the 401 plan , the probability of that , is going to be saving more for tomorrow .
and we found that there was actually a context .
so in these plans , we had about 657 plans that offered people anything between two and 59 different fund .
and what we found was that the more fund was offered , in fact , that the more participating rate was lower .
now , if you look at the extreme , the plans , the two fund offers , had a submission rate in the &apos; 70s -- still not as high as we want .
in the plans that offered almost 60 fonds , the participation rate now fell to about the sixth percentage .
now it turns out that even if you &apos;re going to participate , if more choices are available , even then it has negative consequences .
so the people who decided to participate , rather than the fact that the more possibilities they had available , the more they avoided to choose actia and fund .
christianity , islam , buddhism , judaism , whatever .
within a short period of time , we think we could be able to solve one of the fundamental questions of life .
the more opportunities they had , the more they put all their money in pure money market accounts .
none of these extreme decisions belong to the decisions that someone would recommend when we care about their future financial well-being .
well , in the last 10 years , we &apos;ve seen three basic negative consequences in people who are providing more and more choices .
they &apos;re pushing the decision -- push it up , even when it comes to their own best interest .
they make worse decisions -- worse financial and worse medical decisions .
they choose to make themselves less happy , even if they make it objective better .
the main reason for this is that we might enjoy looking at these huge shelves of mayonaise , mustard , essive and martian , but we can &apos;t actually draw the comparison and the boundaries and then actually choose something out of the fantastic deal .
so what i want to suggest to you today is four simple techniques -- techniques that we &apos;ve tested in different ways and different research places -- that you can just use in your business .
first of all , limited .
you &apos;ve heard it before , but it was never more true than it is today .
you know , we really have -- moderate goals like replacing the whole petrochemical industry . right . if you couldn &apos;t do that at ted , where else ? becoming a major source of energy .
people are always worried when i say , &quot; limited . &quot;
they &apos;re always worried that they &apos;re losing regalvanization .
but in fact , we see it more and more , that if you &apos;re willing to be limited , and the unimportant equals opportunities , well , then there &apos;s a increase in sales , there &apos;s a lower cost , there &apos;s a &amp; amp ; there &apos;s an improvement in decision-making perception .
when proctor and gamble reduced the different head and shoulder species from 26 to 15 , they had an increase in sales by 10 percent .
when the golden cat corporation got rid of her 10 worst selling catastrophe streams , they found that the profits were up by 87 percent -- a result of both the increase in sales and the reduction of cost .
you know , the average supermacrt today offers you 45,000 products .
a typical walmart now offers you 100,000 products .
but the nine-largest supermarket , the world &apos;s nine-largest supermarket , aldi , and they only give you 1,400 products -- a kind of tomato sauce in doses .
now , in the world of savings , i think one of the best examples that have recently come to the market , about how to best mandate the choices , was something that david laibson has very strongly designed , it &apos;s a program that &apos;s offered at harvard .
every single harvard employee is automatically participating in a lifetime fund .
but in the same way , we &apos;re working on using the same approaches to the development of vaccines .
those who really want to make a choice are offered 20 fund , not 300 or more fund .
you know , people often say , &quot; i don &apos;t know how to confine it .
it &apos;s all important opportunities . &quot;
and the first thing i ask the employees is , &quot; tell me how the possibilities are different from each other .
and if your employees can &apos;t keep them apart , your customers can &apos;t either . &quot;
well , before we started this lunch , i had a conversation with gary .
and gary said that he was willing to offer all the people in this audience an all-inclusive vacation to the most beautiful street in the world .
here &apos;s a description of the street .
and i &apos;d like to read them to you .
and now i &apos;m going to give you a few seconds to read them , and then i &apos;m going to ask you to clap if you &apos;re willing to take gary &apos;s offer .
you saw it this year with flu , we &apos;re always in the back of the year , and we have a dollar too little when it comes to the right vaccine .
okay . everyone who &apos;s willing to take gary &apos;s offer .
are they all ?
well , let me show you a little bit more of it .
they knew it was a trick , right ?
now , who &apos;s ready for this journey .
i think i may have heard more hands .
all right .
in fact , the first time you saw it objectively is that you had more information than the second time , but i would dare to guess that you felt it the second time in real life .
because the images made it real for them .
which brings me to the second technology that helps them deal with the problem of decision-making overload , which is concretization .
i think that can be changed by creating recombined vaccines in advance .
it &apos;s about people , to understand the difference between possibilities , to understand what consequences are associated with the individual possibilities , and that these consequences need to be vivid and concrete .
why do people spend 15 to 30 percent more on average when they use an e.u. card or a credit card than they do on cash ?
because it doesn &apos;t really feel the money .
and it turns out that if you can do it , something feels concrete , it &apos;s a very good tool to get people to save more .
so in a study i did with shlomo benartzi and alessandro previtero , we did a study with people at ing -- employees who all worked for ing -- and these people were all in a gathering where they signed up their participation for their retirement plan .
and during this gathering , we left this gathering just as it used to be , just we added a little bit of a thing .
the small thing that we added was that we asked people to just think of all the positive things that would happen in their lives if they were to save money .
in which we did this simple thing , there was an increase in participation by 20 percent , and there was an increase in the number of people who were willing to save or increase by four percent in the amount that they were willing to pay for the savings accounts .
the third technology : categorization .
we can deal with more categories than with more choices .
that &apos;s what the future might look like with changes , can now accelerate the evolutionary tree with synthetic bacteria , archaeas , and perhaps eukaryontes .
here , for example , is a study that we did in a magazine gang .
it turns out that in the mans supermarkets up and down in the northeast area , it varies the number between 31 different kinds of magazines up to 64 magazines .
but you know what ?
if i show you 600 magazines , and i divide them into 10 categories , or i show you 400 magazines , and i split them into 20 categories , you think i &apos;ve given you more choice and a better choice experience than i would have given you the 400 versus if i had given you the 600 .
because the categories tell me how to keep them apart .
here are two different jewelry facilities .
one is called &quot; jazz , &quot; and the other is called &quot; swing . &quot;
if you think that the left ad is swing and the ad on the right is jazz , you clap your hands .
okay , there are a few .
if you think the one on the left is jazz and the one on the right is swing , please clap .
we &apos;re light years away from improving people , and our goal is to have a chance to survive long enough to do that . thank you very much .
okay , a few more .
well , it turns out they &apos;re right .
the one on the left is jazz , and the one on the right is swing , but you know what ?
this is a highly unuseful categorization scheme .
the categories have to tell the voter something , not the one who provides the choice .
and you often see this problem when you look at the long lists of all these fonds .
who do you really want to inform ?
my fourth technology : premise for complexity .
it turns out that we can actually deal with more information than we think we just have to simplify it .
we need to slowly increase complexity .
at the last ted conference , i gave an introduction to the lhc .
i &apos;m going to show you an example of what i mean .
let &apos;s take a very , very complicated decision : the purchase of a car .
here &apos;s a german car manufacturer who gives you the opportunity to reconfigure your car completely .
you have to make 62 different decisions to completely design your car .
now these decisions are different in the number of choices that they offer per decision .
car color , foreign color -- i have 56 possibilities .
motors , gears -- four possibilities .
what i &apos;m doing now is i &apos;m changing the order in which the decisions appear .
half of the customers are going to go from the many possibilities , 56 car colors to the low possibilities , four gears .
the other half of the customers go from the low possibilities , four gears , to the 56 car colors , many possibilities .
and i promised to come back to tell you how the machine works .
what do i look at ?
how interested they are .
if you use the standard choice all the time in the decision , it means that you &apos;re overwhelmed , the healthiest , i lose it .
what they find is that the people who go from the many to the low choice dough will go over and over and over again choose the standard choice .
we &apos;re losing them .
go from the little choice to the many , then stay with it .
it &apos;s the same information . it &apos;s the same number of possibilities .
the only thing i &apos;ve done is to change the order in which this information is presented .
when i start with the simple start , i learn how to choose .
even though the gear is selecting , it &apos;s not telling me about my preferences at the interior , it &apos;s still preparing me to choose .
so here it is . and for those of you who weren &apos;t there at the time , the lhc is the largest scientific experiment that has ever been approached -- 27 miles in diameter .
it also excites me about the big product that i put together , and so i &apos;m willing to motivate myself to be interested in it .
let me summarize .
i &apos;ve told you about four techniques that alleviate the problem of decision overlap -- constrain -- get rid of the obsolete alternatives ; concrete -- do it real ; categorize -- we can deal with more categories , less possibilities ; prepare for complexity .
each of these techniques i &apos;m describing to you today is to help you manage the possibilities -- well for you , you can use them for yourself , good for the people you offer service .
because i think the key to the best possible choice is that you are selective in the selection .
and the more we choose , the better we will be able to practice the art of choice .
thank you .
hi . i &apos;m kevin allocca , trends managers at youtube , and i look at youtube professionally .
that &apos;s true .
today we want to talk about how video is viral , and then why that &apos;s important at all .
a continent is always left out , because the assumption was that in sub-saharan africa , there was no religious faith , of course , and voodoo is just the remaining of this very profound religious thought that came across during the tragic diaspora of slavery .
his job is to create the conditions that existed less than a billionth of a second after the universe started -- and that &apos;s up to 600 million times in a second .
we all want to be stars -- celebrities , singers , comedians -- when i was young , it seemed so infinitely difficult .
but web video has allowed us to all , or all of our creative activities , become insanely famous in a part of the world &apos;s culture .
every single one of you could be famous on the internet to the next saturday .
but on youtube , more than 48 hours of video is uploaded every minute .
again , only a tiny percentage of this ever gets viral and is viewed thousands of times and so on to the cultural moment .
so how does this work ?
three things : tastemaker , participation communities and the unexpected .
well , then we want to .
oh my god . oh my god .
oh my god !
it &apos;s just breathtaking ambition .
whoa !
ohhhhhh , wowwww !
last year , bear vasquez sent this video that he had filmed in front of his house at yosemite national park .
in 2010 , it had been looked at 23 million times .
this graph shows what it looked like last summer when the video became popular for the first time .
in fact , bear didn &apos;t want to make a viral video .
he just wanted to share a rainbow .
because this is what you do when you call yosemite mountain bear .
he had uploaded a lot of natural video .
and this video had actually been sent in january .
this is the machine below geneva .
what happened here ?
there was jimmy kimmel .
jimmy kimmel sent the tweet , which eventually made the video so popular .
because tastemaker like jimmy kimmel introduces us to new and interesting things and show you a big audience .
it &apos;s friday , friday . gotta get down on friday . everybody &apos;s looking forward to the weekend , weekend . friday . friday . you wouldn &apos;t have thought we &apos;d have this conversation without talking about this video , i hope .
rebecca blacks &apos;s &quot; friday &quot; is one of the most popular videos of the year .
it was looked at almost 200 million times this year .
this is what the graphics looked like .
just like &quot; double rainbow , &quot; it seems to have come out of nowhere .
what happened that day ?
we take pictures of this mini-big bang in detectors .
well , it was friday , that &apos;s true .
if you want to know , these other peaks are also fridays .
but what about that day , that particular friday ?
well , tosh.0 , a lot of blogs started writing about it .
michael j. nelson from mystery science theater was a first to make a joke on twitter .
what &apos;s important is that a single person or a group of tastemakers took a point of view , shared a big audience and accelerated the process .
and then this community of people who shared this big insider joke , and started talking about it and started playing around with it .
now there are 10,000 parodies of &quot; friday &quot; at youtube .
already in the first seven days , there was a parody for every single day of the week .
unlike the one-page entertainment of the 20th century , the community is our way to become part of this phenomenon -- either by spreading it or making something new .
that &apos;s what i &apos;m working on . he calls himself atlas detector -- 44 meters in width , 22 meters in diameter .
nyan cat is animation and music in endless loop .
that &apos;s it , very simple .
this year , it was looked at almost 50 million times .
and if you think that &apos;s crazy , you should know that there &apos;s a three-hour version of it that &apos;s been looked at four million times .
even cats look at this video .
cats look at cats looking at this video .
the importance is the creativity that exists in the internet culture of techies and geeks .
there were remixes .
somebody made an old-fashioned version of it .
and then it became international .
here &apos;s a spectacular image of the atlas in the construction so you can see the scale .
a whole remix community shot out of the ground that made it from a stupid joke to something that we can all participate in .
today , we &apos;re not just enjoying something , we &apos;re doing .
who could have anticipated all this ?
who could have predicted &quot; double rainbow &quot; or &quot; rebecca black &quot; or &quot; nyan cat &quot; ?
what scripts could you have written that would be in ?
in a world where every minute , two days of video is uploaded , only really unique and unexpected outcomes like the videos i mentioned .
i admit i wasn &apos;t particularly interested when a friend told me to watch this great video , about a guy who protests the ticket for bicycles in new york .
i got a ticket because i didn &apos;t go on the bike lane , but often there are disabilities that don &apos;t let you drive on the bike lane .
because that was completely surprising and humorous , casey niestats was looked at five million times , and his argument was looked at .
this approach is for anything new that we do creatively .
on september 10 , last year , the machine ran for the first time .
and that all leads us to the one big question ...
what does that mean ?
ohhhh .
what does that mean ?
tastemaker , creative participants , completely unexpected , are the features of a new kind of media and culture that everybody has access to , and where the audience determines popularity .
as i said , one of the biggest stars at the moment -- justin bieber -- started with youtube .
no one has to give the green light to your ideas .
and today , we all feel ourselves as owners of our pop culture .
and these are not the characteristics of the old media , and they &apos;re barely approaching the media of today , but they &apos;re going to determine the entertainment of the future .
thank you .
and this picture was taken by atlas .
the story is not over yet .
it &apos;s a puzzle that &apos;s still being put together .
i want to tell you about some of the pieces of the puzzle .
imagine the first piece : a man burning his life &apos;s work .
he &apos;s a poet , a writer , a man whose whole life has been held together by the simple hope of oneness and freedom of his home .
keep him in front of the eyes of the communicators in saigon , as he must admit that his life had been a single waste .
the words , as long as his friends , joked his own .
he moved back to silence .
he died , broken through history .
it caused immense jubel in the control room .
he &apos;s my grandfather .
i never met him personally .
but our lives are so much more than our memories .
my grandmother never let me forget his life .
i had to make sure that it wasn &apos;t free , and it was my job to learn that the story was trying to crush us , but we got over it .
the next piece of the puzzle shows how a boat is running in the early morning red quiet at sea .
my mother may was 18 when her father died -- already in an arranged marriage , with two little girls .
for her , life had given her a task : the escape of her family and a new life in australia .
it was completely excluded that she could fail .
after a four-year-old and film tires saga glided a boat still on the lake as a fishing boat .
it &apos;s a picture of the first radiation particle that returned all the way around the lhc , then intentionally collided with a part of the lhc to make a rain of particles collide on the detector .
all adults were aware of the risks .
the biggest fear was pirate , rape and death .
like most adults on the boat , my mother was carrying a little toxic bottle .
when i had a prisoner , my sister and i would have drunk her and my grandmother .
my first memories are from this boat -- the steady tuckers of the engine , the clapping of any wave on the bug , the long and empty horizon .
i don &apos;t remember the pirates that came out many times , but they were fooled by the death courage of the men on our boat , or the exterior of the engine who didn &apos;t want to start six hours .
but i remember the lights of the oil platform off the malayan coast , and the young man who collapsed and died , the end of the journey was too much for him , and the taste of the first apple that one of the men gave me on the platform .
no apple has ever tasted that way again .
after three months in a refugee camp , we ended up in melbourne .
and the next piece is about four women in three generations that together build a new life .
but what makes voodoo so interesting is this living relationship between the living and the dead .
in other words , when we saw this picture on september 10 , we knew that the machine works , which is a big triumph .
we settled in footscray , one of the working-class residents , whose population is made of immigrant layers .
unlike the old-fashioned middle class suburbs , whose existence i was completely unknown , there was no sophisticated thinking in footscray .
the scaffolding from the latin belt came from the rest of the world .
and the sentences of broken english were swapped between people who had one thing in common : they started new .
my mother worked on farms , then on a assembly line in a car factory , six days , doubled layers .
and somehow she managed to find the time to acquire english and it-qualifications .
we were poor .
every dollar was given , and it was put in more english and mathematics education , no matter what we had to do , and most of the time , the new things were always coming out of the second hand .
two strands for school , each one , to cover the holes in the other .
a school uniform up to the buttons , because she had to pass six years .
i don &apos;t know if this created the biggest jubel , or this was when someone visited the google page and found the front page like this .
and there were the rare but painful choirs of &quot; sweetheart , &quot; and here , and there , and there are tapestries , &quot; asian , go home . &quot;
where do you go ?
something was sticking in me .
there was a meeting for reconciliation , and a quiet voice said , &quot; i &apos;m going to take you out of the way . &quot;
my mother , my sister and i slept in the same bed .
my mother was exhausted every night , but we told each other about our day , and we listened to the movements of our grandmother in the house .
my mother suffered from the boat in nightmares .
and it was my job to stay awake every night , until her nightmares came so i could wake them up .
she opened a computer business , and then she did a cosmetic education , and she opened another business .
and the women came with their stories about men who didn &apos;t deserve the change , angry and unflexible , and carefully filled children , trapped between two worlds .
it means that we have a cultural impact besides the scientific .
loans and sponsors were searched .
centers were built .
i lived in parallel worlds .
in one , i was the classic asian student who provided unquestionable demands for himself .
in the other , i was involved in unsafe lives , wearing the tragic scars of violence , the drug abuse and the isolation .
but so many got the help over the years .
and because of this help , i was chosen in my last year of law school as a young australian of the year .
and i was catapulted from one piece of puzzle to the next , and the edges didn &apos;t fit together .
tan le , anonymous footscray resident , was now tan le , refugee and social activist , who was invited to speak to places that she had never heard of , and in homes that she could never have imagined .
i wasn &apos;t familiar with the label .
about a week later , there was a problem with the machine that had to do with these wires here -- these golden wires here .
i didn &apos;t know how to use the bribe .
i didn &apos;t know how to talk about wine .
i didn &apos;t know how to talk about anything .
i wanted to go back to the routine and the convenience of the life of an unknown suburb -- a grandmother , a mother and two daughters who have been sealed every day as they have been for 20 years by telling each other the stories of their day and sleeping , we still have three in the same bed .
i told my mother i wouldn &apos;t do that .
she reminded me that i was now as old as she was when we were climbing the boat .
no had never been a chance .
&quot; just do it , &quot; she said . &quot; and don &apos;t be what you &apos;re not . &quot;
so i was talking about youthless and education , and the neglect of marginalized and disenfranchised .
and the more open i spoke , the more i should tell .
these wires run 13-thousand amppers when the machine is running on high performance .
i met people in all living facilities , so many of them did what they loved , lived on the limits of the possible .
and even though i graduated from my degree , i realized that i couldn &apos;t find myself with a career in jura .
there had to be another piece of puzzle .
and i realized at the same time that it &apos;s okay to be an outsider , a new head , new in the picture -- and not just okay , but something you have to be grateful for , maybe a gift of the boat .
because belonging so easily can lead to the collapse of the horizon , it can mean so easily that you accept the assumptions of the environment .
i &apos;ve now gone out of my comfort zone to know that , yes , the world is apart , but not the way you fear it .
possibilities that had not been allowed were explicitly encouraged .
there was a energy , an inexhaustible optimism , a strange mixture of humility and wagging .
so i followed my gut feeling .
i collected a little team of people around me for whom the boxes were not &quot; going to be an inconsistent challenge .
now , the engineers among you will look at them and say , &quot; no , you don &apos;t . these are little wires . &quot;
for a year , we didn &apos;t have a cent .
at the end of every day , i cook a giant pot of soup that we shared .
we worked late at night .
most of our ideas were crazy , but it was a few brilliant people , and we made the breakthrough .
i made the decision to move to the united states .
after just one journey there .
my gut feeling again .
three months later , i was moved , and the adventure continued .
before i finish the talk , i want to tell you about my grandmother .
she grew up at a time when confucianism was the social norm , and the local mandarin was the most important person .
they can do that because if you cool them down very far , they become what they call superconductors .
life had not changed for centuries .
her father died shortly after her birth .
her mother raised her alone .
at 17 , she became the second woman of a mandarin whose mother beat her .
without the support of her husband , she provided a sensation by bringing him to court and advising in her own case , and a bigger sensation than she won .
&quot; doesn &apos;t go &quot; proved to be untrue .
i was shooting in a hotel room in sydney when she died , 1,000 miles away in melbourne .
i looked through the shooting wall , and i saw them standing on the other side .
i knew she &apos;d come to pass .
my mother called me a few minutes after that .
so at minus 271 degrees , colder than the room between the stars , these wires can hold the tension .
a few days later , we went to a buddhist temple in footscray and sat around their coffin .
we told her stories , and we made sure that we were still with her .
at midnight , the monk came and said he had to close the coin .
my mother asked us to touch her hand .
she asked the monk , &quot; why is your hand so warm , and the rest of her is so cold ? &quot;
&quot; because they &apos;ve been holding them this morning , &quot; he said .
&quot; you didn &apos;t let them go . &quot;
if there &apos;s a band in our family , it goes through women .
you can see who we were , and how life shaped us , we can now see that the men who might have come into our lives would have come to us in a way .
the defeat would have been too simple .
in one of the connections , between over nine thousand magnets at the lhc , there was a manufactured defect .
now i &apos;d like to have my own kids , and i think about the boat .
who would ever want one ?
yeah , i &apos;m afraid of privilege , of ease , of justice .
can i give you a bug in your life , which is bold to dry every wave , the inadequate , steady tuckers of the engine , the long horizon , which doesn &apos;t guarantee anything ?
i don &apos;t know .
but if i could give this and i could surely get you through this , i would do it .
and also , tans &apos;s mother here today is in the fourth or fifth row .
i &apos;m here to share with you my photography .
is it even photography ?
because , of course , this is a picture that you can &apos;t take with your camera .
and so the wires are shrinking , and 13-thousand amppers suddenly encountered electrical resistance .
and yet , my interest in photography started when i got my first digital camera at the age of 15 .
i combined it with my previous preference for drawing , but it was a little bit different , because using the camera was actually the process in planning .
and when you take a picture with a camera , the process ends when you press on the trigger .
so for me , photography seemed to be more about being in the right place at the right time .
i thought everybody could do that .
so i wanted to create something else , something where the process starts when the trigger is printed .
photographs like this : a construction site along a much ridden road .
but it has an unexpected twist .
and yet , maintain a realistic level .
or photographs like this -- dark and colorful at the same time , but all with the common goal of keeping a realistic level .
the living bears give birth to the spirits .
this was the result .
when i say reality , i mean photoreality .
because , of course , it &apos;s not something that you can really capture , but i always want to make it look like it could have been in a photograph .
photographs where you have to think for a moment to figure out the trick .
so it &apos;s more about capturing an idea than really a moment .
but what is the trick that makes it look realistic ?
is it about the details or the colors ?
is it about the light ?
what creates the illusion ?
sometimes the perspective is the illusion .
but in the end , it &apos;s about how we interpret the world , and how it can be made tangible on a two-dimensional surface .
now , all of this is even more impressive if you can imagine that the magnets weigh over 20 tons and shifted by about 30 inches .
it &apos;s not what &apos;s realistic , it &apos;s what we think is realistic .
so i think the foundations are very simple .
i see them as a puzzle of reality where you can take different pieces and put them together to create an alternative reality .
and let me show you a simple example .
we have three perfectly imaginable physical objects that we can all relate to in a three-dimensional world .
but in a certain way , you can create something that looks still three-dimensional , as if it could exist .
but at the same time , we know that this is not possible .
so we &apos;re overlisting our brains , because our brains simply don &apos;t accept that it doesn &apos;t really make sense .
and i see the same process in combining photographs .
it &apos;s really just about combining different realities .
so we damaged about 50 of the magnets .
so the things that make a picture look realistic , i think it &apos;s the things that we don &apos;t think about , the things around us in our everyday lives .
but when we combine photographs , it &apos;s really important to think about it , because otherwise they just look kind of wrong .
so i would say that there are three simple rules to follow to achieve a realistic outcome .
as you can see , these are not three special images .
but you can combine something special like this .
so the first rule is that combined photos should have the same perspective .
secondly , combined photos should have the same kind of lighting .
and these two pictures are fulfilling these two demands -- shot out of the same altitude and the same kind of lighting .
third , it &apos;s about making it impossible to tell where the individual images start and end by connecting them seamlessly .
it &apos;s impossible to say how the photo was actually put together .
and they had to remove them , which we did .
so by comparing color , contrast and brightness to the edges , the individual images , photographic deprivation added , like depth of the field , unseen colors and disorders , we wipe the boundaries between the different images and make them look like a single photograph , even though a picture can basically contain hundreds of levels .
here &apos;s another example .
you might think that &apos;s just a landscape , and the bottom part has been manipulated .
but this picture is actually completely composed of photographs of different places .
i personally find that it &apos;s easier to create a place than to find a place , because you don &apos;t have to go into compromise with the ideas in your head .
but it requires a lot of planning .
and when i had this idea in the winter , i knew i needed several months to plan them to find the different places for the puzzle .
for example , the fish had been recorded on a fishery trip .
the bank comes from a different place .
the underwater part comes from a quarry .
we reconciliated them , repaired them .
and yes , i even put the house on the top of the island in red to make it look swedish .
so in order to achieve a realistic outcome , it comes from me , to planning .
i always start with a sketch , an idea .
and then it &apos;s about the combination of the different images .
and here , every piece is very well planned .
and if you take good images , the result can be pretty beautiful , and it can also be pretty realistic .
so there are all the tools there , and the only thing that limics us is our imagination .
thank you .
i &apos;d like to talk to you about why so many electronic health projects fail .
and i think the most important thing about this is that we stopped talking to our patients .
they &apos;re all now back on their way back .
and one of the things that we introduced at the radboud university was to hire a major listener .
and she doesn &apos;t do it very scientifically -- she puts a cup of coffee or tea down , and she asks the patients , families , relatives , &quot; how do you do ?
how can we help you ? &quot;
and we think we want to think that this is one of the main problems , why all -- maybe only most of the electronic health projects fail : because we stopped listening .
this is my wlan-scale . it &apos;s a very simple thing .
she has a button , on / off .
and every morning i jump on that .
and yes , i have a task , as you might recognize .
i did my job at 95 pounds .
it works very easily : every time i jump on the scale , it also sends my data to google health .
by the end of march , the lhc will be again working .
and that &apos;s where they &apos;re called from my general doctor , so he can see where my weight problem is , not just the moment i need cardiological support or something , but also with a look at the past .
but there &apos;s something else .
you may know that , i have over 4,000 followers on twitter .
so every morning i jump up to my wlan-scale , and people are talking to me before i sit in the car , &quot; for lunch , better just a little salad today , lucien . &quot;
but this is the nicest thing that can happen , because this is the group coercion to help patients , because this could be used against obesity , or it could be used to smoke .
but it could also be used to get people out of their chairs , and get them to play together some kind of game to control their health better .
this is coming out of the market next week .
there &apos;s going to be this little blood printing device that you attach to an iphone or something .
and it will allow people to measure their blood pressure from home , send it to their doctor , and share it with others , for example , for over 100 dollars .
at this point , the patients come in . they can not only take control , they can be captain on their own ship , but they can also help us with the challenges that we face , and the cost explosion of health care , doubled demand , and so on .
we &apos;re going to turn it on , and we &apos;re going to expect to be able to collect the first data in june or july , and continue our journey to figure out what the building blocks of the universe are .
make methods that are easy to use and start hugging patients on the team .
and they can do that through such methods , but also through crowdsourcing .
and one of the things we &apos;ve done , i want to share with you through a short video .
we have all the navigation systems in our cars .
maybe even in our cell phones .
we know exactly where all the atms are around maastricht .
we know another one where all the gas stations are .
and sure , we can find fast food chains .
but where would the next aed be to help this patient ?
we asked around , and nobody knew .
now , of course , in a way , these accidents again , the debate around the value of science and engineering at these limits . it &apos;s easy to reject something like this .
no one knew where to find the next life-saving aed at that moment .
so what did we do ? we did crowdsourcing in the netherlands .
we built a website , and we asked a crowd of people , &quot; if you see an aed , please share with us where he is , &quot; because sometimes he &apos;s closed in business , of course .
and over 10,000 aeds have already been reported in the netherlands .
the next step was to find the apps for that .
and we created an ipad app .
we developed an app for layar , extended reality , to find these aeds .
and if you &apos;re in a city like maastricht and someone breaks down , you can use your iphone , and within the next weeks , your microsoftware cell phone to find the next aed that can save lives .
and today , we want to introduce this not just as aed4u , what the product calls &quot; aed4us . &quot;
and we want to take this to a global level .
i think the fact that it &apos;s so hard , the fact that we reach beyond our limits is the value of things like the lhc .
and we ask our colleagues around the world , from other universities , to help us behave like node points , to crowdsource these aeds around the world .
and if you &apos;re on vacation , and somebody &apos;s collapsing , whether it &apos;s your own relationship , or anyone else , you can find this kind of aed .
the other thing we want to ask for is that companies around the world help us to confirm these aeds .
these might be curial services , or technicians , for example , just to make sure that the aed is still in his place .
please help us and try to improve health , not just to improve something , but to take control of it .
thank you .
today , i &apos;m going to report unexpected discoveries .
i work in the solar technology industry .
and my little startup wants us to force ourselves to protect the environment by ...
... it &apos;s paying attention to crowdsourcing .
the spirits can be sucked up by under the great water , responding to the rhythm of dance to displace the soul of the living temporarily , so that the akolyth for a brief shiny moment becomes the god .
i &apos;m going to leave my closing words to an english scientist . humphrey davy , who , i think , when he defended the useless experiments of his apprentice , his apprentice was michael faraday , said , &quot; nothing is so dangerous for the development of the human mind than to assume that our scientific ideas are finally valid , that there are no mysteries in nature , that our triumphs are complete , and that there are no new worlds to conquer . &quot;
here &apos;s a quick video of what we do .
oh . a moment .
it may take time for it to be invited .
now -- we can just jump this -- i &apos;m just going to skip the video instead ...
no .
this is not ...
okay .
solar technology is ...
oh , my time is over ?
okay . thank you .
thank you .
so a few years ago , i started a program to get the stars in technology and design to take a year off and work in an environment that &apos;s pretty much everything they really hate , we let them work in government .
the program is called code for america , and it &apos;s a little bit like the freaks peace scorps .
we choose some fellows every year , and we let them work with city administrations .
instead of sending them to the third world , we &apos;re sending them to city hall users .
and they developed great apps , working with urban workers .
but what they really do is to show what &apos;s possible today with technology .
so they meet al .
al is a hydrant in the city of boston .
here it looks like he &apos;s looking for a date , but what he really is looking for is somebody who frees him up when he &apos;s in the field because he knows he &apos;s not very good at the fire fight when he &apos;s covered by a meter of snow .
how did he get to look for help in this particular way ?
i &apos;m a writer .
we had a team of fellows in boston last year in boston , the code for america program .
they were there in february , and it did a lot of work last february .
and they realized that the city would never open these fire hydrants .
but one particular fellow , one guy named erik kay ober , noticed something else , and that was that the residents freed the sidewalks right in front of these parts .
so he did what every good developer would do , he wrote an app .
it &apos;s a nice little app where you can adopt a hydrant .
you voted to him freely when it snows .
if you do that , you can give him a name , and he called the first al .
if you don &apos;t do that , somebody can take it away from you .
so there &apos;s a nice little game dynamic .
writing books is my profession , but it &apos;s , of course , more than that .
this is a modest little app .
it &apos;s probably the smallest of the 21 apps that the fellows wrote last year .
but it does something that no other government technology does .
it spreads rapidly .
there &apos;s this guy in the i.t. section of the city of honolulu , who saw that he could use this app , not for snow , but for citizens to adopt tsunami sirens .
it &apos;s very important that these tsunami sirens work , but people steal the batteries .
so he got the citizens to check them .
and then seattle decided to use the app to get the citizens to clean the clogged gullys .
and chicago just introduced them so that people would open up the burial sticks when it was sniffing .
we now know nine cities that are planning to use this app .
it &apos;s also my great , lifelong love and fascination .
and it &apos;s spread inherently , organic , of course .
if you know something about government technology , you don &apos;t usually know it &apos;s going to work that way .
it &apos;s usually a few years of software accumulating .
we had a team that worked on a project in boston last year that took three and a half months to do .
it was about a method with which parents can figure out which are the right public schools for their children .
we were told later that if it were going over the normal channels , it would have taken two years , and it would have cost over two million dollars .
and that &apos;s nothing yet .
there &apos;s a project in california right now that the taxpayer has cost two billion dollars so far , and it doesn &apos;t work .
and there are projects like this at every level of government .
so an app that &apos;s written in a few days , and then it spreads from rarely , is a kind of a shot in front of the bug to the institution of the government .
and i don &apos;t expect that to ever change .
it shows how government could work better -- no longer like a private company , how many people think it should be .
and not even like a tech company , but rather like the internet itself .
and that means free access , that means open and productive .
and that &apos;s important .
but more importantly , this app is that it represents a new generation that tackles the problem of government -- not as the problem of a saled institution , but as a problem of collective action .
and that &apos;s a very good news , because it turns out we &apos;re very good at collective action with digital technology .
now there &apos;s a large community of people who are making the tools that we need to effectively put things together .
it &apos;s not just code for america , it &apos;s hundreds of people all over the country who are standing up and writing government apps every day in their own communities .
they didn &apos;t give up the government .
they &apos;re terribly frustrated with her , but they don &apos;t complain about it , they fix her .
but recently , something weird has happened in my life and my career that has led me to completely rethink my relationship to this work .
and these people know something that we &apos;ve lost from the eyes .
and that &apos;s when you forget all your feelings about politics and the snake at work and all the other things that we &apos;re really excited about is government , in the core , in the words of tim o &apos;reilly , &quot; what we do together , that we can &apos;t do alone . &quot;
today , a lot of people have given up the government .
and when you &apos;re one of those people , i ask you to think about it , because things change .
politics doesn &apos;t change ; the government is in change .
and because the government finally exhausts its power from us -- remember , &quot; we &apos;re the people ? &quot; -- how we think about it will affect how this change happens .
i didn &apos;t know very much about government when i started this program .
and like a lot of people , i thought the government is all about choosing people into an office .
now , after two years , i &apos;ve come to the conclusion that it &apos;s all about municipal rats .
this is the call center for service and information .
this strange event was that i was writing a book recently -- a biography called the &quot; recieat , pray , love &quot; -- that decided , unlike all of my previous books , went out into the world for some reason , and became a big mega-event , international bestseller thing .
you usually get out there when you call in your city 311 .
if you ever have the opportunity to work in your urban call center , like our fellow scott silverman , as part of the program -- in fact , they all do -- you &apos;ll see that the people , the government , are calling for many different problems , including that there &apos;s a marsupial rat in their house .
so scott gets this anfruit .
he types &quot; thylacines &quot; into the official database .
and he doesn &apos;t really have an idea . he starts with the animal beginner .
and finally , he says , &quot; look , can you just open all the doors in your house and play very loud music and see if the livestock hears ? &quot;
and that worked . applause for scott .
but that wasn &apos;t the end of the thylacines .
boston doesn &apos;t just have a call center .
it has an app , a web and cell phone app , called citizens connect .
the result is that , no matter where i come from , i &apos;m treated as if i were refused to go .
we didn &apos;t write this app .
this is the work of very smart people at the office of the new urban mechanics in boston .
one day -- this is an actual report -- came in , &quot; thylacine rats in my trash bin . can &apos;t tell if she &apos;s dead .
how do i get them away ? &quot;
but what happened to citizens connect is different .
scott was talking from human to human .
but it &apos;s all on citizens connect , so everybody can see it .
and in this case , it saw a neighbor .
and the next entry that we got was , &quot; i went over there , found the garbage bin behind the house .
thylacines ? yes . alive ? yap .
seriously -- refused to go down !
turned the garbage bin on the page . went home .
good night , sweet thylacine . &quot;
pretty simple .
that &apos;s great . here &apos;s the digital hitting the physical .
and it &apos;s also a good example of how to get the government into crowdsourcing .
but it &apos;s also a great example of government as a platform .
and i don &apos;t necessarily mean a technical definition of the platform here .
i &apos;m talking more about a platform for people to help themselves and to help others .
a citizen helped another citizen , but the government played a central role here .
she connected these two people .
so the voodoodooists like to say , &quot; you white people go to church and talk about god .
for example , you get very concerned about me and you say , &quot; don &apos;t you fear you &apos;re never going to overcome this success ?
and you could have combined them with government services if they needed them , but a neighbor is a far better and cheaper alternative to state services .
if one neighbor helps the other , we strengthen our communities .
if we call the animal beginner , it costs a lot of money .
one of the most important things is that we need to think about it is that government is not the same as politics .
and most people understand that , but they think that one is the input of the other .
that our contribution to the system is voting .
how many times did we choose a political leader -- and sometimes we used a lot of energy to choose a new political leader -- and then we recline and we expect the government to reflect our values and meet our needs , and then it didn &apos;t change much ?
that &apos;s because the government is like a further ocean , and politics is the top 15 inches .
and what &apos;s below that is what we call bureaucracy .
and we use this word with this kind of contempt .
are you not afraid that you &apos;re going to write your whole life on and never create a book that anyone in the world is interested in ? never again ?
but it &apos;s this contempt that this thing that we own , and that we pay for , it makes something that works against us , something else , and then we set ourselves up .
people seem to think , politics is sexy .
if we want this institution to work for us , we need to make bureaucracy sexy .
because that &apos;s where the actual government work is happening .
we have to rely on the machinery of the government .
so the occupation movement has done it .
did you see these guys ?
it &apos;s a group of troubled citizens who wrote a very detailed 325 page report , which is an answer to the sec-memo on the financial reform legislation .
it &apos;s not being politically active , it &apos;s bureaucratically active .
well , for those of us who have given up the government , it &apos;s time that we think about the world that we want to leave to our children .
okay , it &apos;s really courageous .
you have to imagine the enormous challenges that they have to face .
do we really believe that we need to achieve what we need to achieve without improving the institution that can operate on behalf of us all ?
a government is absolutely necessary , but it needs to be more efficient .
the good news is that technology makes it possible to profoundly reframe the function of government in a way that can actually achieve something by empowering society .
and there &apos;s a generation that has grown up with the internet , and that knows that it &apos;s not that hard to do things together , you just have to build the right systems .
now the average age of our field is 28 , so i am , unfortunately , almost one generation older than most of you .
this is a generation that grew up looking at her voice for granted .
they don &apos;t fight this battle that we all struggle to talk about who &apos;s allowed to speak ; they &apos;re all allowed to speak .
you can make your opinion at any channel at any time , and you can do it .
so , when you &apos;re faced with the problem of government , don &apos;t worry so much about using your voices .
but it would be worse if i didn &apos;t remember that , over 20 years ago , when i first told as a teenager that i wanted to be a writer , i was confronted with the same kind of anxious response .
they use their hands .
they use their hands to write applications that improve government &apos;s work .
and these apps allow us to use our hands to improve our communities .
this could be to open a fire hydrant , to hunt , to turn a trash can with a thylacine rat .
and sure enough , we could have gotten these fire hydrants out all the time , and a lot of people do that .
but these apps are like little digital memories that we &apos;re not just consumers , and we &apos;re not just consumers of government who pay taxes and receive services .
we are more than that , we are citizens .
and we &apos;re not going to improve government until we improve citizenship .
so the question i have for all of you here : when it comes to the big , important things that we need to do together , all of us together , are we just going to be a lot of voices , or are we going to be a lot of hands ?
thank you .
people said , don &apos;t you be afraid to never succeed ?
usually my role in explaining to people how wonderful new technologies that are coming up will be , and i thought , since i &apos;m here among friends , i would tell you what i really think is , and also try to look back and understand what &apos;s going on here , with these incredible jumps that are going on so fast , that we can barely keep up .
i &apos;m going to start by showing you a single boring slide for a second .
... could you just show the slide for a second ?
this is a slide that i &apos;ve chosen from my folder randomly .
i &apos;m not talking about the details of the slide , but rather the general form .
this slide shows data from us about the performance of risc processors compared to the performance of a local area network .
the interesting thing here is that this slide , like some others , which we often meet in our field , is a kind of semi-logarithmic curve .
in other words , every step here corresponds to a potential in the scale of performance .
and this is a novelty that we need to use this guy on semi-logarithmic curves in the field of technology .
something very strange happens here .
are you not afraid that the humiliation of a treaty is killing you ?
this is basically what i &apos;m going to talk about here .
so , if you could turn on the light again .
a little bit brighter , because i &apos;m going to draw something on the paper here .
now , why do we draw graphs in technology on semi-logarithmic curves ?
the reason for that is , if i were to draw it on a normal curve , where , say , these are the years , the timeline of a species , and this is a random measure of technology that i want to show with a graph , then the graph is going to be silly .
they look like this .
and that doesn &apos;t tell us much .
now , if i wanted to record another technology , say , a transportation technology , that would be very unreasonable on the semi-logarithmic scale , in the form of a flat line .
but when something like this happens , it changes the quality of the situation .
so if transportation technology continued as fast as the microprocessor technology , we could get into a taxi in the morning , and in 30 seconds we would be in tokyo .
aren &apos;t you afraid you &apos;re going to follow this crafts your whole life , and you &apos;re never going to get something out of it , and you &apos;re going to die on a scrap , burgled dreams -- your mouth filled with the bitter ashes of failure ?
but it doesn &apos;t go so fast .
this has never happened before in the history of technology development , this kind of recursive growth , where the scale is expanding exponentially every few years .
now the question i want to ask you is , if you look at these exponential curves , you can see they don &apos;t go on forever .
it &apos;s not possible that everything is evolving forever and forever as fast as it is now .
there are two possibilities .
either it becomes a classic s-curve like this , until something completely new comes along , or it &apos;s going to happen here .
it &apos;s kind of like that .
well , i &apos;m an optimist , so i think something like this will happen .
if that really is , then that means we &apos;re in the middle of a transition right now .
we &apos;re here on this line , in a transition from the world that &apos;s been here to a new kind of world .
so , you know .
so the question that i want to ask , and i also often ask myself , is , how is this new world going to be good ?
what is this new state that the world is beginning to adopt ?
because the transition seems to be very , very confusing when you &apos;re in the middle of it .
when i was a kid , there was a future somewhere in 2000 , and people often talked about what would happen in 2000 .
now , here &apos;s a conference where people talk about the future , and you realize that the future is still in 2000 .
beyond that , we don &apos;t go .
so in other words , the future has shrunk by a year since i &apos;ve been in this world .
i think the reason for that is that we realize that something is going on .
the transition happens . we can all feel it .
and we know that it just doesn &apos;t make sense to try to look into the future for 30 or 50 years , because everything is going to be so different that a simple projection of what we &apos;re doing now simply doesn &apos;t make sense .
and the answer -- the short answer to all of these questions is , you know , in some way .
so i want to talk about what this might be , this transition that we &apos;re in right now .
to do this , i &apos;m going to talk first about a few other things that really have nothing to do with technology or computers .
because i think to really understand this , we have to step back and look at the thing on a longer scale of time .
and that is , i want to look at this on the earth &apos;s scale .
i think the whole picture makes sense if you divide it into a few billion steps .
so let &apos;s go back , and it was 2.5 billion years , and the earth was a big , sterile stone clump with lots of chemicals floating on it .
now , if you look at the way these chemicals were organized , it gives us a pretty good picture of how they did this .
i also think there are theories that start to understand how it all started with rna , but i &apos;m going to tell you a simplified story about it , which is that at that time , there were little oil droplet , which had different kinds of recipes for chemicals .
some of these oil droplet contained a special combination of chemicals that allowed them to integrate other chemicals from outside and grow .
everybody who was like this started to divide .
yeah , i &apos;m afraid of all these things .
these little oil droplet were the most primitive cell form .
but these oil droplet weren &apos;t about alive in today &apos;s sense , because every single one of them was just a small , random recipe of chemicals .
and every time it divided , the chemicals in it have spread to unequal amounts .
so every droplet was slightly different .
in fact , the droplet grew , which had one for the growth of optimal composition faster than others , and integrated more and more chemicals from the outside and divided faster .
so these were the tendencies to survive longer , and they were expanding at a larger scale .
so this is just a very simple chemical form of life , but what &apos;s more interesting is that when these droplet pipes learned a trick about abstraction .
in some way , which we don &apos;t quite understand yet , these droplet has learned the ability to write information down .
they &apos;ve learned to store the recipe of the cell as information in a particular chemical form , which we call dna .
in other words , in this mindless , evolutionary way , they found a way that allowed them to write down what they were made of , so that this information could be stored and copied .
we dance in the temple and we become god . &quot;
and i always had that .
the amazing thing about this is that this kind of information has remained the same over the period of 2.5 billion years that it &apos;s been created .
in fact , the recipe for us is our genes , the exact same code and the same writing .
and that is that every being uses exactly the same letters and the same code .
we are so far that we can only write for a pleasure purpose , even in this code .
and i &apos;ve got 100 micrograms of a white pulse that i &apos;m trying to keep in airports away from security staff .
it &apos;s in that -- what i &apos;ve done is , i &apos;ve taken this code -- the code is made up of normal letters that we use to symbolize -- and i &apos;ve written my business card on a piece of dna , and i &apos;ve amplified it 10 .b. 22 times .
so if somebody wants a hundred million copies of my business card , i have enough for everyone in this room and even for everyone in the world , and it &apos;s right here .
if i &apos;d actually been an egoist , i would have written it on a virus and released it into the room .
so what &apos;s the next step ?
the dewriting of dna was an interesting step .
and i &apos;m afraid of a lot more things that no one would ever know .
and that &apos;s what made these cells -- that made them happy for another billion years .
but then another very interesting step , where things became completely different , which is that these cells started to communicate and exchange information , so that communities of cells emerged .
i don &apos;t know if you knew that , but bacteria can actually exchange their dna .
that &apos;s why , for example , the persistence of antibiotics is growing .
some bacteria have figured out how to stay away from penicillin , and they &apos;ve put that information together with other bacteria into the dna , and now we have a lot of bacteria that are resistant to penicillin , because the bacteria communicate with each other .
now this communication allowed the reasons of communities , which were , in a sense , in the same boat ; they were synergetic .
so they survived together either , or they went together , which meant that if a community was successful , all the individuals of the community were more repeated and preferred by evolution .
now , the transition site is where these communities were so close together that they decided to write the recipe for the whole community into a drawing chain on the dna .
and the next interesting phase took about another billion years .
at this point , we have multi-cellular communities , communities of many different cell types , which work together as a single organism .
like algae -- and other frightening things .
in fact , we are such a multi-celled community .
we have a lot of cells that are no longer on their own .
your skin cells are useless without heart cells , muscle cells , brain cells and so on .
so these communities started to evolve so that the level at which evolution was happening is no longer the single cell , but the whole cell community , which we call organism .
the next step happened in these communities now .
the cell communities began to abstract information again .
and they developed special structures that did nothing but processing information within the organism .
and these are the neural structures .
so the neurons are the information processing system that these cell communities have built .
they started to educate specialists within the community , special structures , which were responsible for learning , understanding and capturing information .
but when it comes to writing , i &apos;ve been thinking about it recently , and i ask myself , why ?
and this was the brain and the nervous system of these communities .
this gave them an evolutionary advantage .
because at this point , an individual -- learning has now happened within the time of a single organism &apos;s lifespan , instead of this evolutionary period .
so an organism could learn , for example , not to eat a particular fruit because it tasted bad and made it sick , the last time he ate it .
now this could happen within the lifetime of a single organism , whereas it took hundreds of thousands of years to get this information evolutionarily learned from the individuals who died because these information processing structures were not there yet .
so the nervous system has the evolutionary process with these particular information structures , because evolution could now take place within an individual .
it could take place within a time of learning .
what happened after that was that the individual organisms found a way to communicate with each other .
for example , the most sophisticated version of this communication is the human language .
it &apos;s a pretty amazing invention when you think about it .
is that reasonable ?
i have a very complicated , messy and confused idea in my head .
i &apos;m sitting here , and i &apos;m basically giving grinding sounds of me , hoping to create a similar confused idea in your head , which has a certain similarity with my original idea .
so we take something very complicated , we turn it into sound , a sequence of sound , and we produce something very complicated in the minds of others .
so this now allows us to work again as a unified organism .
and what we &apos;ve actually done , we , humanity , is we &apos;ve started to abstract .
we go through the same stages that multi-cellular organisms have gone through -- the abstraction of our methods , how we hold data , process it .
the invention of language , for example , was a small step in that direction .
telephones , computers , video obstacles , cd-roms and so on are all our specialized mechanisms that we built in our community to be able to handle this information .
and it connects us all together to something that &apos;s much bigger , and it &apos;s also able to evolve faster than we &apos;ve been .
so today , evolution can happen in the time period of microseconds .
is it logical that somebody should be expected to do the work that they &apos;re afraid to do ?
you also saw tys &apos; little evolutionary example where he showed a little bit of evolution in the convolution program right in front of your eyes .
so now we &apos;ve raped the timeline again .
the first steps of the story i told you took a billion years per piece .
the next steps , like the nervous system and the brain , took several hundred million years .
then the next steps , like language and so on , took less than a million years .
and these next steps , like electronics , seem to take a few decades .
the process feeds on itself , and it becomes , i think , auto-catalytic is the word for that -- when something increases its speed of change .
the more it changes , the faster it changes .
and i think that &apos;s what we see here in this explosive curve .
we see the process that feeds on itself .
and what &apos;s going on with the creative corporations that they make us insecure about the state of mind -- in a way that other professions don &apos;t do ?
i live professionally from building computers , and i know that i can &apos;t use the mechanism that i use to build computers without using the advances in computer technology recently .
my current work is to design objects with such a high complexity , that it &apos;s impossible for me to design them in the traditional sense .
i don &apos;t know what every single transistor does in the binding machine .
it has billions of these .
what i do instead , and what the designers of thinking machines do , is we think at a certain level of abstraction , we give this machine over , and the machine makes it something that exceeds our skills , better and faster than we could ever do .
and it does it in part with methods that we don &apos;t even really understand yet .
one way that &apos;s particularly interesting , and which i &apos;ve used a lot lately , is evolution itself .
and we &apos;re going to install an evolutionary process in the machine , which is going on in the microsecond area .
in order to give an example , in the most extreme cases , we can create a program that &apos;s developed from random instructions .
we say , &quot; computers , please generate a hundred million random sequences of instructions .
my father , for example , was a chemist , and i can &apos;t remember a situation in his 40 years as a chemist , where he was asked if he was afraid to be a chemist .
now , please run all of these random instructions , do all the programs , and eventually pick the ones that i &apos;m going to do the next thing . &quot;
so in other words , i first define what i want .
let &apos;s say i want to take numbers , which is a simple example that i &apos;ve used to do this .
so find programs that can be the number one .
of course , the chance , in random instructions , is very small that , by chance , they &apos;re doing numbers , so probably none of the instructions are actually going to do this .
but one of them , if you &apos;re lucky , may put two numbers in the right order .
now i say , &quot; computers , take the 10 percent of the sequences that have come next to my prescription .
store them , delete the rest .
now , all the rest of the remains that the numbers have best sorted .
and it &apos;s with a method of recombination , analog for reproduction . &quot;
with your chemical blockage , john -- how are you doing it ?
take two programs , and they produce children through the exchange of their subroutines , and the kids inherit the features of the subroutines of the two programs .
so now i have a new generation of programs that have come from combinations of programs that have come a little closer to the prescriptions than others .
say , &quot; please repeat this process . &quot;
reevaluating them .
maybe take some mutations .
and try the whole thing again with another generation .
all of these generations take just a few milliseconds .
and so i can run through evolution over millions of years in the computer in a few minutes , or in more complicated cases , a few hours .
and finally , i get programs that can make numbers perfect .
in fact , these programs are so much more efficient than any program i could have ever written by hand .
it just didn &apos;t seem , you know ?
so when i look at these programs , i can &apos;t tell you how they work .
i tried to understand them .
it &apos;s abandoned and weird programs .
but they do the job .
i know , and i &apos;m sure you do the job , because you come from a series of hundreds of thousands of programs that have done the job .
because their lives depended on whether they did the job right .
i sat in a 747 with marvin minsky , and he pulled out a map , and he says , &quot; oh look . look at this .
it says , &quot; this plane is made up of hundreds of thousands of little bits that work together to make their flight safer . &apos; don &apos;t that make you more confident ? &quot;
we know that a process of development is not optimal when it gets too complicated .
so we start to rely on computers for a process which is very different from classic engineering .
and because you &apos;re obsessed , you &apos;re taken by the mind . how can you be harmed ?
but to be fair -- the group of chemists over the centuries have not received the call of alcohol manic depression people .
it allows us to do things with a much higher complexity than the normal methods would allow us to produce .
and yet , we don &apos;t really understand the possibilities of this yet .
so , in a sense , technology is overwhelming us .
now , we use these programs to make the computers much faster , so that we &apos;re able to do these processes even faster .
so there &apos;s a feedback recovery .
it gets faster and faster , and i think that &apos;s why it seems so confusing .
because all these new technologies are feeding on themselves today .
we &apos;re going to take off .
we got to a point where the analog is at the time , when one-cell organisms evolved into multi-cell organisms .
so we &apos;re the amoebas , and we can &apos;t quite figure out what the hell we &apos;re actually creating here .
but we writers seem to have this kind of call , but not just the writers , but the creative of all genres seem to have this call , mentally unstable .
we &apos;re in the middle of this transition point .
but i really believe that something else comes after us .
i think it &apos;s very , very tedious to say that we are the end product of evolution .
and i think all of us here are part of the creation of whatever comes next .
now , lunch stands before , and i think i &apos;m going to stop here before i get chosen .
my story begins right here in rajasthan , about two years ago .
i was under the starry sky with sufi singer mukhtiar ali .
we talked about the fact that nothing has changed since the time of the ancient indian epos , &quot; mahabharata . &quot;
if we wanted to travel indians at the time , we jumped into a car and we screamed over the sky .
now we &apos;re doing this with airplanes .
all you have to do is look at the bitter death numbers of really great minds from the 20th century alone , the young and often died by your own hand .
at the time , when the great indian warrior prince had arjuna , he took an arc , he was shooting into the ground and water .
now we &apos;re doing this with drills and machines .
we came to the conclusion that magic and magic were replaced by machines .
that made me really sad .
i got a little scared of technology .
i was afraid that i could lose the ability to enjoy the sunset without a camera and without tweet to my friends .
i found that technology should make magic possible and not kill .
when i was a little girl , my grandfather gave me his little silver watch .
this piece of 50 years old technology became the most magical thing for me .
it became a golden access to a world full of pirate and unfortunate ships and images in my mind .
and even those who didn &apos;t actually do suicid seemed to be really neglected by their talents .
it seemed to me that our send clocks and cameras were dreaming of it .
they kept us inspired by being inspired .
and so i went into the world of technology to see how i could use it to enable magic rather than killing .
at 16 , i started illustrating books .
when i saw the ipad , i saw it as a device for storytelling that readers can connect all over the world .
it can know how we hold it .
it can know where we are .
it brings together images and text , and animation , sound and touch .
the storytelling needs more and more senses .
but what do we do with this ?
norman mailer said just before he died in his last interview : each of my books killed me a little bit further .
i &apos;m just going to khoya , an interactive ipad app .
it says , &quot; put your fingers on every light . &quot;
and so -- here it says , &quot; this box belongs ... &quot; i write my name .
and i get a character in the book .
over and over again , a letter for me falls down -- and the ipad knows where i live -- it &apos;s really addressed to me .
the child in me is really excited about these possibilities .
i talked a lot about magic .
i mean , not magic and dragon , but the magic of childhood , the ideas that we all had as children .
fireflies in a glass were always very exciting .
so here you have to tip the ipad and let the fireflies out .
an extraordinary statement that you can make about your life &apos;s work .
and they illuminated the way through the rest of the book .
another idea that fascinated me as a child is that a whole galaxy can be put in a single murmur .
and so here , every book and every world becomes a little murmur that i put here to the magical device in the device .
and this opens up a map .
fantasybooks have always had maps , but these maps were static .
this map grows and glows and serves for orientation in the rest of the book .
it also shows up in other places of the book .
i &apos;m going in here .
it &apos;s also important for me to create something that is indian , but also very time-consuming .
these are the apsaras .
but we don &apos;t even listen to somebody like this , because we &apos;ve known this kind of statement for so long . somehow , we &apos;ve sort of embraced the notion that creativity and suffering are somehow related together , and that art , at the end , always leads to the soul .
we &apos;ve all heard of fees and nymphen , but how many people outside india know their indian colleagues , the apsaras ?
the poor apsaras were caught in indras chambers for thousands of years in an old muffy book .
and we bring them back in a contemporary story for children .
a story that confronts new issues , like the environmental crisis .
on the environmental crisis , a big problem in the last 10 years is that children are sitting in their rooms , in their computers , without going out .
but now , with mobile technology , we can take our children into the natural world with their technology .
in an interaction of the book , you &apos;re sent to a search , you have to go out and collect pictures of natural objects with the camera of the ipad .
as a child , i had collections of sticks , rocks , tiles and shells .
somehow , the kids don &apos;t do it anymore .
this childhood ritual is brought back . you have to go out to take a picture of a flower in a chapter .
the question i want to ask everyone here today is , is this idea completely fine for you ?
in another chapter , you have to photograph and tag a piece of baumri .
so you actually create a digital collection of photographs that you can then put online .
a child in london shows the picture of a food and says , &quot; oh , i &apos;ve seen a fox today . &quot;
a child in india says , &quot; i saw a monkey today . &quot;
this creates a kind of social network around a digital collection of photographs that you &apos;ve actually taken .
there &apos;s a variety of ways that magic is to connect the world and technology together .
in the next book , we &apos;re planning an interaction where you use the video of the ipads , and you see , through augmented reality , an animation of the elevators that appear on a plant outside the house .
at one point , the screen fills with leaves .
you have to make the sound of the wind , blow it away and read the rest of the book .
we all move to a world where the natural forces of technology can get closer , and in magic and technology can get closer .
do you feel comfortable with this ? because when i &apos;m only one centimeter away , i don &apos;t feel comfortable with this notion at all .
we use the energy of the sun .
we bring our kids and we get closer to the natural world and the magic and the fun and the love of our childhood through the simple medium of a story .
thank you .
this is really an extraordinary honor for me .
i spend most of my time researching people , prisons or death cells .
i spend most of my time with the most socially weakest in the social development settlements and in places where there is a lot of hopelessness .
to be here at ted , to see and to hear how stimulating that is , has given me a lot of power .
in the short time here , i realized that ted has an identity .
you can say things that have influence in the world here .
and sometimes when something comes over ted , it gets a meaning and a force that it wouldn &apos;t have otherwise .
i find them disgusting .
i say that because i think identity is very important .
we &apos;ve seen some fantastic presentations .
i think we &apos;ve learned that the words of a teacher matter , but that the words of a dedicated teacher are particularly meaningful .
as a doctor , you can do good . but as a nurturing doctor , you can do more .
and so i want to talk about the power of identity .
i didn &apos;t actually learn this in my work as a lawyer .
i learned this from my grandmother .
i became big in a family , a traditional african-american household dominated by a matriarch , and this matriarch was my grandmother .
she was a meeting , strong woman , she had an effect .
she had the last word in every family argument .
look at these amazing demonstrations : voodoo acolyths in a trunk state , the glowing coal without combustion , an amazing illustration of the ability of the mind to influence the body in a state of extreme arousal .
and i find them dangerous . and i don &apos;t want to watch them take over to the next century .
she was also the starting point of many disputes in our family .
she was the daughter of a slave family .
their parents were born in the 1840s in virginia as slaves .
she was born in 1880 , and the experience of slavery really shaped her worldview .
my grandmother was strong , but she was also loving .
when i met her as a little boy , she came up to me and hugged me .
she pushed me so hard to breathe , and then she let me go .
one or two hours later , when i met her , she came up to me and she said , &quot; bryan , do you feel my hugging ? &quot;
and when i said no , she would hug me again . when i said &quot; yes , &quot; she would leave me alone .
and she was doing something that you always wanted to be close to her .
i think it &apos;s better if we encourage our great creative agents to live .
the only problem was that she had 10 children .
my mother was the youngest of her 10 children .
sometimes , if i wanted to spend time with her , it was hard to get her attention .
my cousins were running around everywhere .
i remember , i must have been eight or nine , i woke up one morning and i went to the living room . all my cousins were running around .
my grandmother sat at the end of the room and stared at me .
first of all , i thought that was a game .
i looked at her and smiled , but she looked very serious .
it went like 15 or 20 minutes , and then she got up and she came over to me , and she took me by the hand and she said , &quot; come on , bryan . you and i , we have to talk . &quot;
i remember it as if it was yesterday .
and i definitely know that for me -- in my situation -- it would be very dangerous to start to sort of leap this dark path of suspect -- especially in the context that i &apos;m in in my career .
i will never forget it .
she took me out , and she said , &quot; bryan , i &apos;m going to tell you something , but you have to promise you don &apos;t say it . &quot;
i said , &quot; promise , grandma . &quot;
she said , &quot; honesty ? &quot; i said , &quot; yes . &quot;
she sat me down and she looked at me . she said , &quot; i want you to know that i &apos;ve seen you . &quot;
she said , &quot; i think you &apos;re special . &quot;
she said , &quot; i think you can do anything you want to do . &quot;
i will never forget that .
then she said , &quot; you just have to promise me three things , bryan . &quot;
i said , &quot; ok , grandma . &quot;
that means -- you see , i &apos;m pretty young . i &apos;m only about 40 years old .
she said , &quot; first of all , you &apos;re going to love your mom . &quot;
she said , &quot; your mom is my baby , and you have to promise you will always take care of her . &quot;
i adored my mother , so i said , &quot; yes , oma , i &apos;m going to do that . &quot;
then she said , &quot; next , i &apos;m going to promise you will always do the right thing , &quot; even if it &apos;s hard to do the right thing . &quot;
and i thought , &quot; yeah , grandmother . i promise it . &quot;
after all , she said , &quot; the last thing you have to promise me is that you will never drink alcohol . &quot;
well , i was nine years old , and so i said , &quot; yeah , oma . i promise it . &quot;
i grew up in the country , in the old , rural south , and i have a brother who &apos;s a year older and a year of younger sister .
when i was about 14 or 15 , my brother came home one day and brought this sixpack beer with me , my sister and me and went to the forest with us .
we were just silly around there as well .
i may have another 40 years of work in me .
then he took a swallow of beer , and he offered my sister one , and she accepted , and then she offered me one .
i said , &quot; no , no , no . all right . just do you . i don &apos;t want a beer . &quot;
my brother said , &quot; well do it . we do it today , you do everything else we do .
i had , your sister had something . go , drink a beer . &quot;
i said , &quot; i don &apos;t want to . just do it . just do it . &quot;
my brother stared at me .
he said , &quot; what &apos;s going on with you ? well , drink something . &quot;
and then he looked me in the face , and he said , &quot; oh no , you &apos;re still not going to make you crazy about the conversation with grandmother ? &quot;
i said , &quot; what are you talking about ? &quot;
he said , &quot; grandma tells all grandchildren that they are special . &quot;
and it &apos;s extremely likely that all i &apos;m going to do from now on writing is reviewed by the world as the work that came from the decreased success of my last book , right ?
i was devastated .
i &apos;m going to admit something to you .
i should probably not do that .
this is perhaps being transmitted publicly .
i &apos;m 52 years old , and i &apos;m confessed that i &apos;ve never drunk a drop of alcohol .
i &apos;m not saying this because i think it &apos;s virtuous . i &apos;m saying this because identity means power .
if we create the right kind of identity , we can tell the people around us things that they don &apos;t believe first .
we can get them to do things that they thought they couldn &apos;t do .
of course , my grandmother would tell all her grandchildren that they were special .
my grandfather was in prison during the prohibition .
i &apos;m saying it straight , because we &apos;re all kind of friends here now -- it &apos;s extremely likely that my biggest success is behind me .
my uncles died of alcohol induced diseases .
and she believed that these were the topics that we would have to take care of .
i tried to say something about our justice system .
this country is different from 40 years ago .
in 1972 , 300,000 people were in prisoners and in prison .
today , it &apos;s 2.3 million .
the united states today has the highest incarceration rate in the world .
seven million people are abandoned on currency or on conditional punishment .
in my opinion , mass incarceration has fundamentally changed our world .
in socially weak and black parts of the population , there &apos;s despair and hopelessness because of these changes .
oh , jesus , what a thought !
one out of three male black men between 18 and 30 is in prison , abandoned on currency , or on conditional punishment .
in urban communities all over the country -- from los angeles to philadelphia , baltimore to washington -- 50 to 60 percent of all black young men are either in prison , in prison , in currency , in conditional exposure .
but our system is not only shaped by questions that have to do with racial belonging , but it &apos;s also being deployed by poverty .
we have a justice system in this country that will treat them much better if they &apos;re rich and guilty than poor and innocent .
wealth , not debt , affects the outcome .
and yet , we seem to be very satisfied with this .
a politics of fear and anger has convinced us that these problems are not our problems .
we &apos;ve lost touch .
i think that &apos;s interesting .
there are some very interesting developments .
these are the kinds of thoughts that can get someone to start drinking gin at 9 a.m. , and i don &apos;t want that .
my home state of alabama draws you the right to vote if you &apos;re convicted .
here and today in alabama , 34 percent of the male black population continuously lost their voting right .
we predict that in 10 years , the rate of recognition of civil honesty rights is going to be as high as before the election legislation .
the silence is obese .
i represent children .
many of my clients are very young .
the united states of america is the only country in the world that convicts three-year-old children to death in prison .
in this country , we have life penalty for children without conditional punishment .
we already have a lot of procedures .
the only country in the world .
i &apos;d rather continue to do this work that i love .
i represent people in death row .
the question of death penalty is an interesting question .
we think that because we &apos;ve been taught that the real question is , did a human being deserve to die for a crime that he has ?
it &apos;s a very sensitive question .
but you can also think about it differently , depending on how we see our identity .
the other way of looking at it is not , did anyone deserve death for a crime , but : did we deserve to kill ?
i think that &apos;s fascinating .
the death penalty in america is defined by error .
on nine people we executed , one that we found for innocent comes out of death row and was released from death row .
an amazing error rate . one in nine innocent .
but what &apos;s interesting is the unique case of the song , the rhythm of dance in every culture .
now , of all the people i &apos;ve met , the sierra nevada de santa marta in northern colombia , were the most extraordinary .
so the question is : how ?
i think that &apos;s fascinating .
we would never let anyone fly on an airplane if for nine planes that would pick one up , one would crash .
but somehow , we &apos;re able to get away from this problem .
it &apos;s not our problem .
it &apos;s not our burden .
it &apos;s not our fight .
i &apos;m talking a lot about these questions .
i &apos;m talking about race and the question of whether we have the right to kill .
and it &apos;s exciting because i teach my students african-american history . i talk about slavery .
i &apos;m talking about terrorism , the time against the end of reconstruction , to the beginning of world war ii .
after some time of reflection seems to me that , to continue to write , i have to design a kind of protective psychological construct .
we don &apos;t really know very much about it .
but for the african-american people in this country , it was a time of terror .
in many areas , people had to be afraid of lynchmobs .
or before bombs .
it was the fear of terror that formed their lives .
these older people are now coming to me and saying , &quot; mr , stevenson , you &apos;re talking , you &apos;re giving talks . you &apos;re telling people to stop saying we have to do it for the first time in the history of our nation with terrorism : after 9 / 11 . &quot;
they say , &quot; no -- tell people that we grew up with this . &quot;
and after terrorism , of course , the race and decades of racially-motivated submission and apartheid came .
and yet , there &apos;s a dynamic in our country -- we don &apos;t like to talk about our problems .
we don &apos;t like to talk about our story .
somehow , i have to find a way to keep writing a safe distance between me and my very natural treasure about how the reaction to the writing will be .
and so we don &apos;t really understand the meaning of our actions in the historical context .
we &apos;re constantly hitting each other .
we always create new tensions and conflicts .
it &apos;s hard for us to talk about race , and i think that &apos;s because we &apos;re not willing to approach the process of truth and reconciliation .
in south africa , people have understood that the race is not to overcome without the willingness to truth and reconciliation .
even after the genocide in rwanda , there was this willingness , but not in this country .
i &apos;ve given some talks in germany about death penalty .
it was fascinating because one of the scientists stood up after my talk and said , &quot; you know , it &apos;s deeply disturbing to hear them speak like this . &quot;
he said , &quot; there &apos;s no death penalty in germany .
and of course , in germany , they can never be . &quot;
as i &apos;ve been looking for models in the past year to do that , i &apos;ve been looking for the past , and i &apos;ve been trying to find other societies to see if they may have better or more reasonable ideas than we can , how to help with the emotional risks that are connected to creativity .
it became completely silent . then a woman said , &quot; with our story , it &apos;s impossible that we ever stand up for the systematic killing of people again .
it would be mindless to us , consciously and targeted people . &quot;
i was thinking about it .
what it would feel like to live in a world where the german state made people , especially if there were a lot of jews under it .
it would be intolerable .
it would be mindless .
and yet , here in this country , in the states of the old south , we put people -- here &apos;s the risk of being convicted of death , 11 times higher when the victim is white than when it &apos;s black . 22 times higher when the proclaimed black , and the victim knows -- in the same states where the earth is resting yellow people .
and yet , there &apos;s this mental disconnect .
i think our identity is threatened .
if we don &apos;t deal with these difficult issues , then the positive and wonderful things are also affected .
this quest led me to the ancient greece and the old rome .
we love innovation .
we love technology and creativity .
we love entertainment .
but in the end , these realities are overwhelmed by suffering , abuse , devotion , degradation .
it seems to me that it &apos;s important to unite both .
because we ultimately talk about how we need more hope , more engagement , more commitment to be able to be in a complex world .
for me , it means time to think and talk about the poor , the disadvantaged , the ones that will never be at ted .
but think in a way that is integrated into our own lives .
we all have to believe at the end of the day things that we can &apos;t see .
we do . as rational as we are , we estimate intellect .
please follow me , because the circle will close again .
innovation , creativity , and development are not just coming out of our heads .
they come from ideas that are driven by the belief in our hearts .
it &apos;s this head-heart connection that i think drives us to be not just open to all the bright and exciting things , but also to the dark and the problematic .
vaclav havel , the great chess politician , once said that .
&quot; when we fought against oppression in eastern europe , we wanted everything we needed the most , but what we needed most was hope , a mental orientation , the willingness to be sometimes in hopeless places and witness . &quot;
this mental orientation is the core of what i believe is that the ted communities also have to engage in it .
there &apos;s no boundary for technology and design that allows us to be completely human , as long as we don &apos;t have eyes and ears for poverty , limitation and injustice .
i want to warn you . this kind of identity requires a lot more of us than if we didn &apos;t care about it .
it &apos;s going to touch you deeply .
as a young lawyer , i had the great privilege of meeting pink parks .
but in the ancient greece and rome , people didn &apos;t believe that creativity comes from people , ok ?
ms. parks kept coming back to montgomery , where she met two of her oldest friends , these older women , johnnie carr , who had organized the montgomery-bus boycott -- an incredible african-american woman -- and virginia durr , a white whose husband , clifford durr , dr. king .b. at .
so these women met and they just talked .
occasionally , ms. carr called me and said , &quot; bryan , ms. parks comes to the city . we want to talk .
do you want to come and listen ? &quot;
and i said , &quot; yeah , very much . &quot;
she said , &quot; and what are you going to do if you &apos;re here ? &quot;
i said , &quot; i &apos;m going to listen . &quot;
and i went over and i just listened .
it was always so inspiring , so inspiring .
i sat there one day , and i listened to these women , and after a few hours , ms. parks turned to me and said , &quot; well , bryan , tell me what the initiative is for the same right . &quot;
they believed that creativity was a kind of divine diener-spirit that comes to people for a distant , unknown source -- for unexplained , unknown reasons .
what are they trying to do ? &quot;
i started with my usual talk .
i said , &quot; we &apos;re trying to go against injustice .
wr wants to help people who have been blamed innocent .
we want to fight bias and discrimination in the criminal justice system .
we want to eliminate lifelong sentences without conditional punishment for children .
we want to do something about the death penalty .
we want to reduce the number of prisoners .
we want to eliminate mass incarceration . &quot;
i gave my usual talk , and then she looked at me and she said , &quot; mhmm . mhmm . &quot;
the greeks called these divine diener-spirits of creativity .
she said , &quot; that &apos;s going to make you very , very tired . &quot;
then ms. carr leaned to me , put a finger on my face , and he said , &quot; and that &apos;s why you have to be very , very brave . &quot;
and that &apos;s why i think the ted community should be tahorers .
we need to find ways to address these challenges : these problems , this suffering .
because ultimately , our humanity depends on our humanity .
in my work , i learned very simple things .
i learned a few very simple things .
that we &apos;re all more than the worst we &apos;ve ever done .
i think that &apos;s true for every human being on the planet .
when someone &apos;s lying , it &apos;s not just a liar .
from socrates , he &apos;s known that he believed he had a demonstration that told him farther away .
if somebody takes something that they don &apos;t belong to , it &apos;s not just a thief .
even if you kill somebody , it &apos;s not just a murderer .
and because that &apos;s the case , there &apos;s a fundamental human dignity that has to respect the law .
i also believe that in many parts of this country , and certainly in many parts of the world , the opposite of poverty is not wealth .
i don &apos;t think so .
i believe that in too many places , the opposite of poverty is justice .
and finally , i believe that even though it &apos;s so dramatic , so beautiful and inspiring , and we &apos;re not measured at the end of our technology , not on the things that we develop , not on our intellect and our minds .
finally , a society is not measured by how it treats its rich and powerful and privileged , but by how it relates to the poor , the convicted , the incarcerated .
because in this context , we &apos;re just beginning to understand the really amazing things that make us up .
sometimes i lose weight . i end up with a story .
after the old tyrannical civilization , which populated the caribbean coastal plain of colombia , and as a result of the conquest , this people moved back to an isolated volcanic massively that rises over the caribbean coastal plain .
the romans had the same idea , and they called this kind of bodily creative mind a bit of a bias .
sometimes i push too much .
i &apos;m getting tired , like all of us .
sometimes these ideas rush ahead of our thinking in a very important way .
i &apos;m advocating these kids who were convicted of too hard punishment .
i go to the research prison and visit a client who may be 13 or 14 years old , and he &apos;s supposed to be in court as an adult .
and then i wonder , how could this happen ?
how can a judge turn someone into something they &apos;re not ?
the judge looks at him as an adult , but i see a child .
one night , i stayed up for too long , and i thought , oh my god , if a judge can turn us into something else , then he must have magic forces .
right , bryan , the judge has magic forces .
that &apos;s great . the romans didn &apos;t really think that a genius was a particularly smart individual .
you should also want some of them .
and because it was late , and i couldn &apos;t really think really anymore , i started working on a post .
i had a 14-year-old , poor black boy as a client .
and i started with this brief , and the headline said , &quot; commission , my poor , 14-year-old black clients like a privileged , white , 75-year-old top manager . &quot;
in my commission , i explained that misconduct of the state of the state and the police and the procedure failures were considerable .
there was a crazy line about the fact that there &apos;s nothing in this country that &apos;s just misconducted .
the next morning , i woke up and i didn &apos;t know if i had just dreamed this crazy assignment or actually written it .
and to my application , i had not only written him , but i had sent him to the court .
a few months went by , and i had just forgotten everything .
but finally , i decided , my god , i have to go to the court and do this crazy case .
they believed that a genius was this kind of magical divinity that was believed to be living in the walls of an artist &apos;s studio -- sort of like dobby , the house 11 -- who came out and created the artist in the work , sort of invisible , and made the result of the work .
i got in the car , and i was really overwhelmed .
so i went to the court .
and i thought that was going to be so hard , so painful .
i finally got out of my car and went up the staircase for the court .
when i was up the staircase to the court , there was an elderly black man , the janitor in the court .
when he saw me , he came up to me and said , &quot; who are you ? &quot;
i said , &quot; i &apos;m a lawyer . &quot; he said , &quot; you &apos;re a lawyer ? &quot; i said , &quot; yes . &quot;
he came up to me and hugged me .
then he whispered me in the ear .
he said , &quot; i &apos;m so proud of you . &quot;
that &apos;s brilliant -- there it is , there &apos;s the distance i talked about -- the psychological construct that protects you from the consequences of your work .
and i have to say , it gave me power .
it touched something very deep inside me , identity , the ability of every single person to contribute to a community , to a perspective of hope .
well , i walked into the courtroom .
as soon as the judge saw me .
he said , &quot; mr. stevenson , did you make this crazy assignment ? &quot;
i said , &quot; yes . &quot; and then we started discussing .
more and more people came in just because they were angry .
that i had written these crazy things .
police officers came in and deputy state lawyers and office workers .
in the turn of the glove , the court was full of people who were angry that we were talking about skin color , about poverty , about inequality .
and everybody knew it worked that way , right ?
from my point of view , i saw the janitor go up and down .
he kept looking through the window , and he could hear the whole tohuwabohu .
he went up and down .
and finally , this older black man came into the court with a very concerned face , and she sat right behind me , almost to the defense bank .
ten minutes later , the judge quit a break .
during the break , a police officer came in that disturbed it , that the janitor was in the courtroom .
this deputy ran over to the older black .
he said , &quot; jimmy , what do you do in the courtroom ? &quot;
the older black man stood up . he looked at the deputy , and he looked at me , and he said , &quot; i &apos;ve come here to tell this young man , don &apos;t lose the goal . don &apos;t give up . &quot;
i &apos;ve come to ted because i think many of you have understood that the moral pendulum of the universe is wiping out a lot , but that it &apos;s increasing justice .
the artist of the age was protected from certain things like , for example , too much narcissism , right ?
that we &apos;re not completely evolved as human beings unless we take care of human rights and basic values .
that our whole survival is connected to the survival of each individual .
that we need to connect our visions of technology and design , of entertainment and creativity with humanity , compassion and justice .
and most of all , i want those of you who see this as well to just say , don &apos;t lose your eyes . don &apos;t give up .
you &apos;ve seen an obvious desire in this audience , this community , and you &apos;ve heard about it , to help you and to do something .
what else can we do ?
bryan stevenson : well , there are opportunities everywhere .
if you live in california , there &apos;s a volksdecision in this spring , which is actually about trying to redirect a efforts to remove something from the money stream that otherwise flows into the politics of the punishment .
here , for example , in california , in the next five years , you &apos;re going to spend a billion dollars on death penalty , a billion dollars .
and yet , 46 percent of all the lethal delicates don &apos;t end with an arrest .
if your work was brilliant , you wouldn &apos;t look at everything for you , everyone knew you had this bodily genius that helped you .
56 percent of rape cases don &apos;t come in court .
there &apos;s a chance to do something .
this reference is going to suggest that you &apos;re going to invest the money in more security forces and security .
i think there are opportunities everywhere .
in the last three decades , the crime rate in america has declined immensely .
this fact is often put into a context with the increased incarceration numbers .
what would you tell someone who believes that ?
well , in fact , the number of violence crimes didn &apos;t change very much .
most of the mass incarceration in this country didn &apos;t really happen in the class of violence .
it was the misguided crossroads against drugs .
when your work flew -- not entirely your fault , right ?
so the dramatic high numbers come from the prisoners .
we went down from the rhetoric of punishment .
now we have &quot; three infringement &quot; laws that bring people behind the grid forever , for a bicycle theft , for the theft of the good , rather than having them give back the victims .
i think we need to do more to help people who have become victims of a sentence , not less .
and i believe that our current punishment line doesn &apos;t help anybody .
i think that &apos;s what we need to change .
bryan , they really made a string vibration here .
they &apos;re an inspiring personality .
thank you for being at ted . thank you very much .
bin laden &apos;s death brings an increased risk of riding .
everybody knew your genius was a little loaf .
famine in somalia . twenty-three : police o.c. spray .
anchor 4 : malignant cartels . five : dangerous cruise ships .
social decline . twenty-seven : 65 deaths .
speaker 8 : tsunamiwarning . 9 : cyberattacks
different anchor : drug war . weapons of mass destruction . tornado .
recession . still . doomsday . egypt . syria .
crisis . death . disaster .
oh my god .
so these are just a few of the clips that i &apos;ve collected over the last six months -- but it could have been the last six days , or the last six years .
in fact , the media prefer to show us negative issues because our minds pay attention to these topics .
that &apos;s how people in the west really thought about creativity for a long time .
and there &apos;s also a very good reason for that .
every second of every day , our senses are catching much more information than our brains can ever process .
and because we don &apos;t care more than our survival , the first stop for all of this information is part of our temporal lobe , the amygdala .
so the amygdala is our early warning system , our driving detector .
it sorts and cuts through all the information looking for any evidence of danger in our environment .
so when we see the news , we prefer to look for negative news .
and the old saying , &quot; when it bleeds , the demand goes up very well . &quot;
now , with all our digital devices , which give us seven days a week , 24 hours a day , all of these negative news stories , it &apos;s not a miracle that we &apos;re pessimistic .
it &apos;s not a miracle that everybody thinks the world is getting worse and worse .
but maybe that &apos;s not the case .
in a bloodshed continent , these people were the only people who were never conquered by the spain .
and then the renaissance came , and everything changed , and we had this big idea . and this big idea was : let &apos;s put the human individual at the center of the universe -- all the gods and mysteries . and there &apos;s no room for mystical creatures to take the commands from the divine .
maybe that &apos;s the reality .
maybe the tremendous progress that we &apos;ve made in the last century is accelerating through a series of forces , so strongly that we will be able to create a world of abundance in the next three decades .
well , i &apos;m not saying that we don &apos;t have big problems -- climate crisis , biodiversity loss , water and energy problems -- we already have them .
and as humans , we &apos;re much better at anticipating problems in the very long run , but eventually overcoming them .
so let &apos;s see what we &apos;ve achieved in the last century , so that we can anticipate the development .
in the last 100 years , the average life expectancy has more than doubled , the inflation of average income in the world &apos;s population has tripled .
child mortality has reduced by one tenth .
and the food , electric transportation and communication costs have reduced by a lot of times .
steve pinker showed us that we &apos;re living in a very peaceful time in human history right now .
and according to charles kenny , in the past 130 years , the literacy rate has gone from 25 percent to 80 percent .
it &apos;s the beginning of rational humanism , and people started to believe that creativity came completely from their own individual .
we live in a really extraordinary time .
and a lot of people forget this .
and we &apos;re constantly increasing our expectations .
in fact , we &apos;ve redefined poverty .
think that a large fraction of americans living under the poverty line have access to electricity , water , toilets , refrigerators , television , mobile phones , air conditioning and cars .
the richest capitalists of the last century , the imperators of the earth , could never have dreamed of such luxury goods .
the basis of a lot of it is technologies , and they grow expotentially .
my good friend ray kurzweil has shown us that every tool that becomes an information technology , on the curve of moore &apos;s law , is doubling the price performance quotite every 12 to 24 months .
that &apos;s why the mobile phone in your pocket costs about a million times less , and it &apos;s thousands of times faster than a supercomputer from the &apos; 70s .
now look at this curve .
for the first time in history , you hear people call this genius or this artist -- instead of having a genius .
this is moore &apos;s law over the last hundred years .
notice two things about this curve .
first of all , how smooth it is -- in good times , war or peace , recession , depression and high conjuncture .
this is the result of faster computers building faster computers .
it slows down for none of our big problems .
furthermore , despite her logarithmic process on the left , she goes upwards .
so the growth rate itself is accelerating .
and on this curve , on the back of moore &apos;s law , we find a series of extraordinary technologies that are available to all of them .
&quot; cloud-computing , &quot; what my friends at autodesk call &quot; infinite computing , &quot; sensors and networks , robots , 3d printers that allow personal production to democratize on our planet , synthetic biology , fuels , vaccines and food , digital medicine , nano-materials and artificial intelligence .
how many of you have seen the victory of ibm &apos;s supercomputer watson at risk ?
i have to tell you , i think that was a big mistake .
that was a great thing .
i went through the newspapers and looked for the best headlines i could find .
i love this one : &quot; watson is forced by human enemies . &quot;
&quot; risk &quot; is not a simple game .
it &apos;s about understanding the nuances of language .
imagine that this artificial intelligence provided to every mobile phone owner .
four years ago , ray kurzweil and i started a new university here at ted called singularity university .
we teach our students all these technologies , with special focus on how they can be used to solve the big challenges of humanity .
and every year , we ask the students to create companies , products and services that are positively capable of the lives of billions of people .
think about how a group of students today can affect the lives of billions of people .
you know ? i think allowing a mere person to think he or she &apos;s like the vessel , like the basin and the essence and the source of all divine , creative , unknown , infinite mysteries is a little bit too much responsibility to burst you into a fragile , human psyche .
30 years ago , this would have sound ridiculous .
today , we can point out dozens of companies that have done this .
when i think about creating abundance , i don &apos;t mean a life of luxury for everyone on the planet ; it &apos;s about creating a life of opportunity .
it &apos;s about creating abundance from scarce goods .
because scarcity is contextual , and technology is a resource that is liberating .
here &apos;s an example .
this is the story of napoleon iii in the middle of the 18th century .
he &apos;s the guy on the left .
he invited the king of siam to dinner .
napoleon &apos;s soldiers got silver besteck , napoleon himself got gold rush .
it &apos;s like asking someone to swallow the sun .
but the king of siam got aluminum bribe .
aluminum , at that time , was the most valuable metal on the planet , more valuable than gold and platin .
this is why the dome of the galaxy monument was made from aluminum .
although aluminum takes 8.3 percent of the earth &apos;s mass , it doesn &apos;t appear as pure metal .
it &apos;s connected by oxygen and silicon .
but then the technology of electrolysis was developed and made aluminum manufacturing so cheap that we use it with our throwaway mentality .
then let &apos;s project this analogy into the future .
we think of energy scarcity today .
ladies and gentlemen , we live on a planet that &apos;s filled with 5,000-times more energy than we use every year .
16 terawatts of energy bounce on the surface of the earth every 88 minutes .
and that disfigures and distorts whole egos , and it creates all these unreachable expectations of success .
it &apos;s not scarcity , it &apos;s accessibility .
and there &apos;s good news .
this year , it &apos;s been the first time you &apos;ve been able to reduce the cost of solar power in india to 50 percent of the same electricity -- 8.8 rupees compared to 17 rupees .
the cost of solar energy dropped by 50 percent last year .
this was published last month with a study that shows that by the end of this decade in the sunny areas of the u.s. solar energy will cost six cents a kwh , compared to 15 cents a national average .
and if we have an energy surplus , then we will have water in the abundance .
let &apos;s talk about water wars .
remember , when carl sagan turned the voyager spacecraft in 1990 , when it passed saturn , back to earth ?
he took a famous photograph . what did it mean ?
&quot; a pale blue dot . &quot;
i think that this success pressure has devastated our artists over the last 500 years .
because we live on a water planet .
we live on a planet that &apos;s 70 percent covered with water .
yes , it &apos;s 97.5 percent salt water , two percent are frozen , and we &apos;re fighting about 0.5 percent of the water on the planet , but here &apos;s hope .
and there are new technologies , not in 10 or 20 years , but now .
it &apos;s new nanotechnology on the way , nano-materials .
and from a conversation this morning with dean kaman , one of the innovators of the do it yourself , i want to share with you a little bit -- he gave me permission -- his technique , which is called &quot; slingshot , &quot; which many of you may have heard about . it &apos;s the size of a refrigerator in the dorm .
it can produce a thousand gallons of clean drinking water a day from different sources -- saltwater , polluted water , latrine -- and all of that for less than two cents a gallon .
the head of coca-cola has just agreed to launch a big test project with a hundred units in developing countries .
and if everything goes well , and i &apos;m very confident , coca-cola will apply this technology globally in 206 countries around the planet .
this is technological innovation that is there today .
and if that &apos;s true -- and i think it &apos;s true -- is the question .
and we &apos;ve also seen this in mobile phones .
oh my goodness , we &apos;re going to reach the 70 percent coverage rate of mobile phones in the developing world by the end of 2013 .
just consider that a masai warrior with a cell phone in the middle of kenya has better mobile communication than president reagan did 25 years ago .
and if you look at google with your smartphone , you have more access to knowledge and information than president clinton did 15 years ago .
they live in a world that has information and communication in abundance , as nobody could have predicted .
and it &apos;s even better , the things that you and i have spent several thousand dollars on -- gps , hd video and photo , libraries full of books and music , technology for medical diagnostics -- are literally now becoming dematerialized and cheaper in your cell phone .
and the best part of this is perhaps what we &apos;re expecting in health .
last month , i had the pleasure of announcing with the qualcomma foundation the so-called &quot; $ 10 million qualcomm tricorder x prize . &quot;
we challenge teams all over the world to connect all of these technologies together in a mobile phone so that you can talk to the device , because it &apos;s equipped with ai , you can test reinhorses or your blood values .
and to win , the device has to make a better diagnosis than a team of highly skilled doctors .
can we change it ?
imagine this device . in the middle of a developing country where there are no doctors , but 25 percent of the disease burden and 1.3 percent of the health care workers .
if this device sequences a rna- or dna virus that &apos;s not known , it calls the ministry of health and prevents a pandemic from its outbreak .
but now the biggest force that will lead us to a world of abundance .
i call them &quot; the next billion . &quot;
the white lines are population .
we just crossed the 7-billion-dollar brand .
and by the way , the biggest insurance against a population explosion is a better education and nutrition in the world .
in 2010 , we had just connected between two billion people online .
by 2020 , we &apos;re going to go from two billion internet users to five billion internet users .
three billion new heads that we &apos;ve never heard of will join global communication .
to this day , they &apos;re governed by a ritual priesthood , but the education to priesthood is very extraordinary .
maybe going back to an ancient understanding of the relationship between people and the mystery of creativity .
what do these people need ?
what are you going to consume ? what are you going to desire ?
and instead of economic gridlock , i see one of the greatest economic schemes in history .
these people represent several trillion dollars that will flow into the global economy .
and they &apos;re going to be healthier by using the tricoder , and they &apos;re going to be better trained by the khan academy , and by having the opportunity to use 3d printers and infinite computing , and be more productive than ever before .
so what can three billion growing , healthy , educated , productive members of the human community bring us ?
how about a sentence of new , unprecedented hearing .
how about giving the oppressed wherever you are , giving a voice to pay attention and create change for the first time ?
what are these three billion people going to bring with us ?
what about contributions that we can &apos;t even predict ?
maybe not .
one of the things that i learned through the x prize is that small teams that are motivated by passion and focus can create extraordinary things , things that large businesses and governments could only create in the past .
i want to end with a story that really got me excited .
there &apos;s a program that some of you may know .
it &apos;s a game called foldit .
it was developed at the university of washington in seattle .
and it &apos;s a game where people can take a sequence of amino acids to explore how the protein will evolve .
and depending on its behavior , we can predict the structure and function .
and this is very important in medical research .
so far , this was a problem for supercomputers .
and this game was played by university professors and so on .
maybe we can &apos;t eradicate the thought of 500 years of rational humanism in an 18-minute talk .
and there are now hundreds of thousands of people playing the game online .
and it showed that today &apos;s human pattern recognition is better folding the proteins than the best supercomputers .
and when these people came and looked at who was the best protein folder in the world , this was not a mit professor , nor a caltech student , it was somebody from england , manchester , a woman who worked as a assistant of the business director in a rehab clinic , who was the best protein orange in the world at night .
ladies and gentlemen , which gives me enormous confidence in our future , is the fact that we have more power today than individuals to face the great challenges of our planet .
we have access to tools with exponential technology .
we have the passion of a diy innovator .
we have the capital of techno-philanthropy .
and we have three billion new heads that we can work with online to master the new challenges , and to do what &apos;s needed .
we expect an extraordinary few decades .
thank you .
and there are certainly people in this audience who would sign really legitimate scientific doubt about the idea of -- basically -- fees that follow people and apply fatty magic to their projects and so on .
i think we have to do something about a changing piece of medical culture .
and i think it starts with a medical doctor , and that &apos;s me .
and maybe i &apos;ve been in business for a long time enough to allow myself to give up a piece of my own false prestige to allow this to happen .
but before i get to the actual theme of my talk , let &apos;s start with a little baseball .
hey , why not ?
we &apos;re close to the season , and we &apos;re moving towards the world cup .
we all love baseball , right ?
baseball is full of great statistics .
and there are hundreds of them .
&quot; moneyball &quot; appears and turns to statistics and to use this to make a great baseball team .
i &apos;m probably not going to be able to take all of you on this journey .
i &apos;m going to refer to a statistic that i hope most of you have heard before .
it &apos;s the average performance of the bat .
we &apos;re talking about a 300 when a bat hits 300 .
that means that the player is probably beating three out of 10 beats .
that means beat the ball in the field , it comes up , it &apos;s not caught , and if you tried to throw the ball on the first base , it wasn &apos;t done in time , and the runner was in safety .
three out of 10 .
do you know how to call a 3,000 major league baseball ?
well , really good , maybe a single star .
do you know how to call a 4,00ter ?
this is somebody who , by the way , meets four out of 10 .
but the question i want to throw up is : why not ?
legendary -- as ted williams legendary -- the last major league baseball player who met over 400 times during a regular season .
let &apos;s transfer back to my medical world , where i feel a lot more comfortable , or maybe a little less comfortable , when i talked to you about it .
suppose you have a blindfold , and you &apos;re transferred to an operator whose average performance is 400 in terms of blindfolding .
somehow , it doesn &apos;t work , right ?
suppose you &apos;re living in a particular remote area , and you have a beloved person with clogged heart disease , and your doctor is transferring that to a cardiologist whose average performance is at 200 .
but , you know what ?
it &apos;s much better this year . it &apos;s on the rising branch .
and she &apos;s beating a 257 .
somehow , it doesn &apos;t work .
but i &apos;m going to ask you a question .
why not think about it that way ?
what do you think of as the average performance for a cardiologist or a nurse or an orthopedic , a birthday worker , should be a rescue assistant ?
1,000 , very good .
the truth is that nobody in all of medicine knows what a good surgeon or a doctor or a rescue assistant should be .
but what we &apos;re doing is we &apos;re sending each and every one of you , including me , into the world with the claim of being perfect .
never make a mistake , but nobody cares about the details of how to do it .
and that &apos;s the message i took in medical school .
i was an obsessive student .
in high school , a student once said that brian goldmann would learn for a blood test .
and so was it .
and i learned in my little snapshot at the sisters residence at the toronto general hospital , far from here .
because it makes just as much sense as anything else i &apos;ve heard about when it comes to explaining the absolutely insane mobility of the creative process .
i memorized everything .
in my anatomic lecture , i learned the origins and runners of every muscle , every branch of every artery that takes away from the aorta , obscure and ordinary differential diagnosis .
i even knew the differential diagnosis to classify renal tubuliar azican .
and all the time i was collecting more and more knowledge .
and i was good , i graduated with cum laude .
and i left medical school with the impression that if i knew everything and knew everything , or at least as much as possible , as close as possible that i was immune to making errors .
and it worked for a while until i met a woman printer .
i resisted at a teaching hospital here in toronto as a woman printer to be brought to the emergency department of the hospital .
at that point , i was a cardiological layer in the cardiological service .
and it was my assignment when the emergency workers were looking for cardiological advice to study the emergency patient .
it &apos;s a process that , as anyone who has ever tried to do something -- in other words , actually , everybody here -- doesn &apos;t always act reasonably .
and to give it back to my ph.d. .
i studied woman printer , and she was in breathless .
and when i listened to her , she made eavesdropping sounds .
and when i heard her chest with the stethoscope , i could hear a cracking sound on both sides , which told me that she was suffering from congestive heart failure .
this is a state where the heart fails , instead of pumping the whole blood on , there &apos;s a part of the blood in the lung , and filling this gradually , so the shortcut came .
and that wasn &apos;t a hard diagnosis to do .
i put them on the treatment , and i went on the treatment .
i gave her aspirin . i gave her medicine to take the pressure of the heart .
i gave her medicine , which we call diuretics , water tablets , so they leave out the liquid .
and over a period of one and a half to two hours , she started to feel better .
in fact , it can sometimes feel almost paranormal .
i felt really good .
and i made my first mistake ; i sent them home .
in fact , i made two mistakes .
i sent them home without talking to my ph.d. .
i didn &apos;t take the listener and do what i should have done , which would have been a call in my ph.d. to tell him , so that he had a chance to take a picture of his own .
and he knew her , he would have been able to contribute additional information to her .
maybe i did it with good reasons .
maybe i didn &apos;t want to be the assistant physician .
maybe i wanted to be so successful and so able to take responsibility that i was doing this , and so i would be able to take care of my patients without having to contact them .
my second mistake was worse .
the young acolyths are separated from their families at the age of three and four , and in a shadow world of the eclipse , in stone huts at the depth of the glacier for 18 years , selectively chosen to mimic the nine months of pregnancy that they were living in their primary mother &apos;s lap , they &apos;re now spending metamorphorphic in the lap of the great mother .
i had such an encounter recently when i met the extraordinary american poet ruth stone , who is now over 90 but who was a poet throughout her life , and she told me that when she was growing up in the villages of virginia , she said she could feel and hear a poem about the landscape .
by sending them home , i missed a quiet voice in me trying to tell me , &quot; goldman , not a good idea . don &apos;t do that . &quot;
in fact , i was so lacked with self-confidence that i asked the nurse who was taking care of the woman printer , &quot; do you think it &apos;s okay when she goes home ? &quot;
and the nurse thought about it and said , in fact , &quot; yeah , i think she &apos;s going to do well . &quot;
i remember it as if it was yesterday .
so i signed the deprivation papers and a ambulance and rescue assistant came and brought them home .
and i went back to work .
the rest of the day , i had this nagging feeling in my stomach .
but i kept working .
and at the end of the day , i grabbed my things , and i left the hospital , and i went to the parking lot to drive home with the car when i did something i didn &apos;t do .
i went through the emergency department on my way home .
she said it was like a thundering train of air .
and there was another nurse , not the sister who had seen printer after woman , but another three words to me , and those three words fear the most emergency doctors i know .
other medical professionals are also afraid of this , but the emergency care is particularly because we only see the patients so volatile .
the three words said , remember ?
&quot; remember the patient they sent home ? &quot;
and the nurse asked the question .
&quot; so she &apos;s back , &quot; she said in this particular pitch .
so she was back .
she was back and dying .
about an hour after she had arrived at home after i sent her home , she collapsed , and the family called 911 , and the rescue assistants brought her back to the emergency room with a blood pressure of 50 , which is a dangerous shock state .
she hardly breathed , and she was running blue .
it would roll over the country on you .
the emergency staff moved all the strands .
they gave her blood pressure up .
they attached them to the ventilation machine .
i was shocked , and i was crushed into the inside .
and i lived through this rollercoaster because she came to the intensive care station after stability , and i hoped that she would recover .
and after two , three days , she realized that she would never wake up again .
she had suffered a non-treatable brain damage .
her family gathered .
and over the course of the next eight or nine days , they gave up to this .
the next day , they left her -- woman printer , a woman , a mother and grandmother .
she felt when it came , because it would bring the earth under her feet .
it &apos;s said that you never forget the names of those who die .
and this was the first time i learned this myself .
the next few weeks , i made provocations , and i learned for the first time the unhealthy shame that exists in our medical culture -- i felt alone , isolated , not the kind of healthy shame that you feel , because you can &apos;t talk to the colleagues .
you all know the healthy shame , if you give a secret to the best friend &apos;s prize , even though that one swore on a mastery and then you get caught and the best friend confronts you with it , and my terrible discussion , when you end up with the bad conscience , and you swear that you never make that kind of mistake again .
if you do repetition and you never make the mistake again .
that &apos;s the kind of educational shame .
the unhealthy way i &apos;m talking about is the one that makes you sick in the first place .
it &apos;s the one who tells you , not what you &apos;ve done is bad , but that you &apos;re bad .
and that &apos;s what i felt .
and it wasn &apos;t because of my top doctor , he was very dear .
she knew that in a moment she could only do one . and that was -- in her words -- it was like the devil .
he was talking to the family , and i &apos;m sure he was saving the wounds and making sure that i wasn &apos;t sued .
but i kept asking these questions .
why didn &apos;t i ask the head doctor ? why did i send them home ?
and then in my worst moments , how could i make such a stupid mistake ?
why did i go to medicine ?
slowly , it certainly laid down .
i started to feel better .
and then on a cloudy day , there was a hole in the clouds , and the sun broke out , and i said , maybe i can feel better again .
and i negotiated with myself that if i doubled my efforts to perfection and never again made a mistake that the voice could be blessed .
and she did .
she ran like the devil to the house while she was tracked by this poem , and it was all about the fact that she had to get fast enough to a sheet of paper and a pen , so she could catch it when she got through her , and she could hold it and hold it on the sheet .
and i kept working .
and then it happened again .
two years later , i had service in the emergency ward in a communal hospital north of toronto , and i looked at a 25-year-old man with a full rage .
it was a lot of loose , and i was in a hurry .
he always showed up here .
i looked in the rake , and it was a little pink .
and i gave him a prescription for penicillin and sent him away .
and even when he went out the door , he pointed at his rake .
two days later , i came to my next emergency service , and my ceo asked me for a conversation in her office .
and she said the three words : do you remember ?
in other paintings , she wasn &apos;t fast enough . she ran and ran and ran , but she didn &apos;t get to the house , and the poem rolled through her , and she missed it . she said it was going to keep moving over land and -- as she said -- looking for another poet .
&quot; do you remember the patient with the mature rake ? &quot;
it turned out he had a streptococonut infection .
he had a potentially life-dangerous disease called epiglottitis .
you can google that , but it &apos;s not an infection of the rake , it &apos;s the top respiratory , and it causes the ending of the respiratory pathways .
and fortunately , he didn &apos;t die .
he got intravenous antibotica and recovered a few days later .
and i went back through the same torture of shame and self-doubt , feeling free , and went back to work until it happened over and over again .
in an emergency layer , i &apos;ve overlooked a blindfold twice .
there &apos;s a lot of it , especially if you think that you &apos;re working in a hospital that only had 14 patients a night .
in both cases , i didn &apos;t send them home , and i don &apos;t think there were any disorders in their treatment .
and then there were those moments -- i &apos;ll never forget the part -- she said that there were moments when she almost missed it .
one thought i had kidney stones .
i arranged the x-ray of the kidneys , and when it wasn &apos;t found , my colleague , in the reception of the patient , found a hardening in the lower right sector , and called the operators .
the other one had strong diarrhea .
i ordered fluide to rehydrate it , and i asked my colleagues to review it as well .
and he did , and when he noticed a hardening in the lower right sector , he called the operators .
in both cases , surgery became operated , and they were fine .
both cases were coming up to me , asking me .
and i would be happy to tell you that my worst errors only happened in the first five years , which many of my colleagues say is total nonsense .
some of my clothes happened in the last five years .
alone , damaged and without support .
so , she runs up to the house , and she looks for the paper , and the poem goes through it , and she grabs a pencil just as she goes through it , and then -- she said -- it was like taking the other hand and getting it packed .
here &apos;s the problem : if i can &apos;t close with my mistakes and talk about them , if i can share the quiet voice that tells me what really can &apos;t happen , how can i share it with my colleagues ?
how can i teach you my mistakes so they don &apos;t do the same thing ?
if i went into a room -- like right now , i have no idea what you &apos;re thinking about me .
when did you hear the last time of somebody who was talking about failures about failures ?
oh yeah , you go to a cocktail party , and you might hear about some other doctor , but you &apos;re not going to hear somebody talk about your own mistakes .
if i were to go into a room full of colleagues and ask for their immediate support , and start telling them what i just told you , i would probably not reach the end of the second story before they were really uncomfortable , anybody would have a joke , they would change the topic and forget the rest .
and in fact , if i knew or my colleagues that an orthopedic in my hospital had taken the wrong leg , believe me , i had trouble looking him in the eyes .
this is the system that we live in .
it &apos;s a completely denial of errors .
it &apos;s a system where there are two basic positions -- the ones that make mistakes and the ones that don &apos;t make them -- the ones that restrict sleep deprivation and the ones that have no limitation , the bad results and the good results .
she got the poem on his tail , and she pulled it back into her body and took it to the sheet of paper .
it &apos;s almost an ideological response like antibodies that attack a human being .
and there &apos;s the idea that if we deploy those who make errors out of medicine , that we have a safe system .
but there are two problems with this .
in my 20-year medical sensation and journalism , i created a personal medical study of medical errors and false treatments to learn everything i could for one of my first articles , which i wrote for the toronto star , &quot; white coat , black art . &quot;
and what i learned is that mistakes are absolutely inexhaustible .
we &apos;re working in a system where errors happen every day , where one in 10 medications is either a false or a wrong dose , where hospital infections are always going to be more and more aggressive and cause devastation or dead .
in this state , about 24,000 canadians die of deadly errors .
in the united states , the institute for medicine is the number of 100,000 .
both of these are strong understatements , because we don &apos;t really look at the problem as much as we should .
and it &apos;s the crux .
and throughout that time , they are culturally introduced into the values of their society , values that sustain the claim that their prayers and only their prayers , the cosmic -- or we could say ecological -- balance .
in these opportunities , the poem came in and intact on paper -- but backwards -- from the last word to the first one .
in a hospital system where medical knowledge doubles every two to three years , we can &apos;t keep up .
sleep deprivation is ubiquitous .
we can &apos;t get rid of it .
we have a cognitive error , so that we can take a perfect pathology for a patient with breast pain .
then i take the same patient with breast pain , and i sweat him , and i give him a little bit of alcoholized breath , and all of a sudden the story is enforced with contempt .
i don &apos;t take the same process .
i &apos;m not a robot ; i &apos;m not always doing things .
and my patients are not cars ; they don &apos;t always tell me their symptoms in the same way .
all of this in summary is inevitable .
so if you take the system the way i was taught , and you put out all the malignant health experts , at the end of the day , there &apos;s no left .
when i heard that , i thought that was uncanny -- that &apos;s exactly how my creative process is going on .
and you know the people who don &apos;t want to talk about their worst cases ?
in my show , &quot; white coat , black art , &quot; i have the habit of saying , &quot; this is my worst mistake , &quot; i would say to everyone from the rescue assistant to the ceo of the cardiologist , &quot; this is my worst mistake , &quot; blah , blah , blah , blah , &quot; what about yours ? &quot; and then i &apos;ll show him with the microphone .
and then their pupils expand , and they came in front of their head , and then they look down , and they swallow , and they start telling their stories .
they want to tell their stories . they want to share their stories .
they want to be able to say , &quot; look , don &apos;t make the same mistakes i made . &quot;
what you need is an environment that allows you to do that .
what you need is a new medical culture .
and it starts with a doctor .
the newly defined doctor is a human being , white for his humanity , accepts them , is not proud to make mistakes , but put everything out of them so that it can be passed on .
she shares her experience with others .
it &apos;s not like my creative process -- i &apos;m not the channel .
it supports you when others talk about your mistakes .
and it shows other people their mistakes , not to make sure they &apos;re loving , but in a loving , supportive way , so that they all benefit .
and she works in a medical culture that recognizes that people fill the system with life , and if that &apos;s true , people also make mistakes from time to time .
so that the system is evolving to create backups , which make it easier to find errors that make people inevitable and also enable them to create loving , supportive spaces where anyone who &apos;s watching health care can actually address things that are potential errors and even rewards for that , and that , in particular , people like me , who make mistakes and should be rewarded for those rewards .
my name is brian goldman .
i &apos;m the newly defined doctor .
i &apos;m a human . i make mistakes .
i &apos;m regret , but i &apos;m trying to learn best from it to pass on to others .
i don &apos;t know what they think of me , but i can live with that .
let me close with three of my own words : i remember .
i &apos;m a masonry . in order to work , i have to get up and sweat every day , combat and really unpleasant .
i &apos;m going to talk about a tiny , little idea .
it &apos;s about changing standards .
and because you can explain this idea in a minute , i &apos;m going to tell you three stories before to use time .
the first story is about charles darwin , one of my heroes .
you know , he was here in 1835 .
you might think he was hunting finches , but that &apos;s not true .
he actually collected fish .
he described one of them as very common .
it was a grouper .
until the &apos; 80s , he was fished in a big way .
but even i &apos;ve been in my species of mouse , sometimes this thing has been striking .
now he &apos;s on the red list of endangered species .
we &apos;ve heard this story many times from the galapagos islands , or other places , it &apos;s not very special .
yet , we still come to the galapagos .
we still think they &apos;re primal .
the brochures still describe them as untouched .
what happened here ?
the second story is supposed to be a different concept , a different scale , a different scale .
because i experienced it when i studied a lagoon in west africa in 1971 .
i went there because i grew up in europe , and i wanted to work in africa later .
i thought i could integrate myself .
and i guess a lot of you have done that .
and i got a bad sunburn , and i was convinced that i really wasn &apos;t from there .
it was my first sunburn .
as you can see , the lagoon was surrounded by palms and by some mangroves .
there were buntbarches of about 20 inches , black spider brothers , a subtle of the buntbark .
the fishermen of these buntans were very productive , and the fishermen lived well on average , and they deserved very well in ghana .
when i went back 27 years later , the fish had shrunk to half its size .
they grew up in five inches .
they had been genetically expressed .
it was still fish .
people were still happy .
even i had work or ideas that came from a source through me that i really can &apos;t identify .
and the fish were also lucky to be there .
so there &apos;s nothing changed , and yet everything has changed .
my third little story tells me about my participation in the introduction of the trawling fishery in southeast asia .
in the &apos; 70s -- rather at the beginning of the &apos; 60s -- europe promoted a lot of development projects .
fish funding meant countries that started already 100,000 fish , the industrial fishing of this pretty ugly ship called mutiara 4 .
i went on to this , and we did the revenues all over the southern south china sea , and especially in the javasee .
we didn &apos;t have words for what we started there .
now , i know it was the reason of the sea .
90 percent of our beginnings were sponges , other animals that are linked to the reason .
most of the fish , the little dots there on the rubber , the rubber pile , were coral reefs .
what is this thing ?
basically , the bottom of the ocean came on deck and then was thrown back .
these pictures are extraordinary , because the transition goes very fast .
within a year , you do a survey , and then you start with the commercial fishing .
the reason is changed . in this case -- a hard reason or a soft coral is becoming a matchy crap .
this is a dead turtle .
they weren &apos;t eaten , you threw them away because they were dead .
one time , we started a living .
she wasn &apos;t drowned yet .
then they wanted to kill them , because you could eat them well .
in fact , this mountain of drum is accumulated by fishermen every time they drive into areas that have never been fished .
and how do we relate to that without losing our minds , but to keep us in mind in the opposite ?
it &apos;s not documented .
we change the world , but we don &apos;t remember it .
we adapt our standards to the new level , and we don &apos;t remember what was there .
if you generalize it , this is what happens .
on the y-axis , there are some good things : biodiversity , number of orca , the green of your country , the water supply .
over time , it changes . it changes , because for people , their actions are completely natural .
every generation looks at the images that you take at the beginning of your conscious life , as standard , and will derive everything from it .
the difference is then perceived as a loss .
but they don &apos;t notice the previous losses .
there can be a sequence of change .
for me , the best living example of how to do this is the musician tom waits . i got to interview him for a magazine a few years ago .
and at the end , they just want to get the inheritable remains .
that &apos;s what we &apos;re doing now , largely , is our goal .
we want to get things that have disappeared or things that are no longer as they were .
now you might think that the problem was people who were certainly living in predatory societies , killing animals and only realized what they had done after a few generations .
because obviously , an animal that was very common is very rare , first of all , before it dies out .
so you don &apos;t lose any common animals .
you &apos;re always losing rare animals .
and that &apos;s why it &apos;s not perceived as a big loss .
over time , we &apos;re focusing on the big animals , and in the ocean , these are the big fish .
they get rarer because we catch them .
at the end of this amazing initiation , you &apos;re suddenly taken out one day , and for the first time in your life , at the age of 18 , you see a sunrise . and in this crystal moment of consciousness of the first light , when the sun begins to rape on the hangs of the remarkably beautiful landscape , all of a sudden , what you &apos;ve learned in abstract glory . and the priest comes back and says , &quot; you see ? it &apos;s really , as i told you .
we were talking about this topic . and you know what ? most of his life , tom was the embodiment of the embarrassed modern artist who was trying to dominate this uncontrollable creative impulse that lived in him and to deal with them .
over time , there &apos;s little fish left , and we think that &apos;s the standard .
the question is , why do people accept this ?
well , because they don &apos;t know it was once different .
of course , a lot of people , scientists , will confirm that it was really different .
they &apos;re going to confirm it , because the evidence of how they were in an earlier form is not the way they would like to present the evidence .
there &apos;s , for example , the anecdote that the report of a captain , which has been seen in this area , can &apos;t be used , or by fishermen scientists can &apos;t normally be valued , because it &apos;s not &quot; scientific . &quot;
so we have the situation that people don &apos;t know the past , even though we live in educated societies , because they don &apos;t trust the sources of the past .
this shows the enormous role that a marine reserve can play .
because through marine protected areas , we &apos;re basically restoring the past .
we &apos;re restoring the past that people can &apos;t grasp , because the standard values have changed and are very low .
but then he got older and quieter , and he told me that one day he was driving on a highway in los angeles , and that &apos;s where everything changed for him .
so the people who see a marine protected area can benefit from the insight that allows them to reclaim their standards .
what about the people who don &apos;t do that because they don &apos;t have access -- the people in the midwest , for example ?
here , i think the art and the film may fill the gap , and simulations .
this is the simulation of chesapeake bay .
a long time ago , there were gray whales -- 500 years ago .
and the color notes and the shades may remind you of &quot; avatar . &quot;
if you think about &quot; avatar , &quot; if you think about why people were so touched by it -- aside from the pocahoneyman story , why were you so touched by the world of the picture ?
because it calls out something that has been lost in a way .
so my recommendation , the only thing i &apos;m going to give , is to cameron , so he spins &quot; avatar ii &quot; underwater .
thank you .
he was driving at high speed when he suddenly hears a little fragment of a melody , which , as it &apos;s often in inspiring , is very difficult for him to grasp , and he wants to have them . she &apos;s gorgeous . he leans afterwards , but he can &apos;t grab them .
in the &apos; 80s , in the communist east germany , if you had a typewriter , you had to register it in government .
they also had to register a leaf of unprecedented text from this typewriter .
the reason for that is , the government could track back where a text came from .
they found an article with a false thought , they could detect the creator of these thoughts .
and we in the west couldn &apos;t understand how anyone could do this , and how much that would limit freedom of speech .
in our own countries , we would never do that .
but today , if you buy a new color laser printer from the leading laser printing factories and print a page , this page has printed bright yellow on every page , in a pattern that clearly leaves the page behind you and your printer .
this is what &apos;s happening to us today .
and above that , no one seems to be raining .
and this was an example of how our own governments are using technology against us , against citizens .
he doesn &apos;t have a piece of paper ; he doesn &apos;t have a pen ; he doesn &apos;t have a tape recorder .
and this is one of the three main sources of the online problems that exist today .
let &apos;s see what &apos;s really happening in the world : we can split the attacks into categories .
we have three main groups .
there are online criminals .
for example , this is mr. dimitry golubow from kiew in ukraine .
and the motives of online criminals are very easy to understand .
these people make money .
they use online attacks to make a lot of money , a huge amount of money .
there are several known cases of online millionaires , multi-millionaires that made their money by attacking .
this is wladimir tsastsin from tartu in estonia .
so he starts to climb this old envelope in him , like i &apos;m going to lose this thing , and he &apos;s going to be tracked by this song forever .
this is alfred gonzalez .
stephen watts .
bjordan sundin .
this is matthew anderson , tariq al-daour and so on and so forth .
these people have come online to wealth , but they &apos;ve acquired it illegal by using trojans , for example , to steal money from our bank accounts , while we &apos;re doing our online banking , or keyloggers , who have collected our credit card information in the pocket , while we &apos;re buying on an infected computer online .
the u.s. intelligence agency fror , two months ago , was the swiss account of mr. sam jain here , and in this account , 14.9 million dollars when it was frozen .
mr. jain himself is on a free foot , the location is unknown .
and i would argue today that we are more likely to be victims of an online crime than a fragile in the real world .
and it &apos;s very obvious that this is just going to get worse .
in the future , most crimes will play online .
i &apos;m not good enough , i &apos;m not able to do it .
the second largest attack group we can see today is not motivated by money .
they &apos;re motivated by something else -- protests , for example , an opinion , or by their audience .
groups like anonymous have gone up over the last 12 months and become one of the main players in the field of online attacks .
so these are the three main flu groups : criminals who are doing it for the money , hackactivists like anonymous , who are resistant to it , but the last group is nations , governments , who are running the attacks .
we have cases like diginotar .
it shows unprecedented what happens when governments attack their own citizens .
diginotar is a complete certificate from the netherlands -- or it was .
in the last fall , it had to report insolvence , because diginotar had been hacked .
somebody had broken in and hacked the system thoroughly .
and last week , in a meeting with dutch government officials , i asked one of the leaders of this group the question of whether he had made it possible that because of the diginotar hacks people had died .
but instead of getting into panic , he just stopped .
and his answer was &quot; yes . &quot;
now , how do people die in the aftermath of a hack like this ?
diginotar is a certification site .
they sell certificates .
what do you do with certificates ?
now , a certificate , if you have a website with https , with ssl encrypted services , for example , gmail .
now , we all use , or many of us , gmail or one of their competitors , but these services are particularly prevalent in totalitarian states like iran , where dissidents use foreign providers like gmail , because they know that they can trust them more than local providers , and that they &apos;re encrypted by ssl connections , so that local government can &apos;t sniff around their conversation .
but you can , if you go to a foreign .
certificate hacking and fake certificates .
and that &apos;s exactly what happened in the case of diginotar .
he ended the whole thought process , and he did something completely new .
how about the arab spring and things that happened in egypt , for example ?
well , in egypt , the insurgency in april of 2011 looted the egyptian intelligence agency , and they found a lot of records .
in these records , there was a folder called &quot; finfisher . &quot;
and in this folder , there were notes from a local company in germany that the egyptian government had sold a few programs that they could -- in very large-scale -- capture any egyptian citizens &apos; communication .
they had sold this program for 280,000 euros to the egyptian government .
the corporate headquarters is right here .
so western governments provide totalitarian governments with aid , so that they can run against their own citizens .
but western governments also help themselves .
for example , in germany , just a few weeks ago , the so-called state strojans found , which was a trojan that was used by german government officials to occupy their own citizens .
if you &apos;re suspected in a criminal case , your phone is pretty much tapped .
he just looked in the sky and said , &quot; excuse me , can &apos;t you see that i &apos;m driving a car ? &quot;
but today we are far beyond that .
they tap into their internet connection .
they use tools like the state strojan to get their computer with a trojan that allows them to monitor their entire communication , listen to their online discussions , collect their passwords .
so if we keep thinking about things like this , the obvious answer of people would be , &quot; ok , that sounds bad , but it doesn &apos;t matter to me because i &apos;m a good citizen .
i don &apos;t have to worry !
i have nothing to hide . &quot;
and that argument doesn &apos;t make any sense .
privacy must be given .
privacy is not a debate .
it &apos;s not a decision between privacy and safety .
i look like i could just write down a song ?
it &apos;s a decision between freedom and control .
and while today , in 2011 , we may trust our governments , every right we &apos;re abandoning is forever abandoned .
and do we trust , do we blindly trust any future government , a government that we may have in 50 years ?
these are the questions that we have to deal with for the next 50 years .
it may seem strange to you , but i &apos;m a big fan of concrete blocks .
the first concrete blocks were made in 1868 , and they came up with a simple idea : module from cement with fixed measurements that fit .
concrete building blocks became the world &apos;s most well-used building unit .
they enabled us to build things bigger than us , buildings , bridges , one stone at a time .
basically , the concrete building block had become the building block of our time .
almost a hundred years later , in 1947 , lego came out with this .
it &apos;s so wonderful . you have to protect it . &quot;
if you really want to exist , come back to a cheaper moment when i can take care of you .
it was called the automatically connected stone .
and within a few years , lego moved into every household .
it &apos;s estimated that over 400 billion stones have been produced -- or 75 stones for every person on the planet .
they don &apos;t have to be an engineer to create beautiful houses , beautiful bridges or beautiful buildings .
lego made it possible for everyone .
lego basically took the concrete building block , the building block of the world , and made it a building block for our imagination .
in the meantime , the same year at bell labs , the next revolution was announced , the next building block .
the transistor was a small plastic unit that would take us from a world of static , stacked building blocks to a world where everything was interactive .
like the concrete block , the transistor allows us to build much larger , more complex cycles , one stone at a time .
but there &apos;s a key difference : the transistor was just for experts .
if not , squawks today , somebody else .
i personally don &apos;t accept that the building block of our time is reserved for experts , and so i decided to change that .
eight years ago , i was at the media lab , and i started to explore this idea of how to put the power of engineers in the hands of artists and designers .
a few years ago , i started developing littlebits .
let me show you how they work .
littlebits are electronic modules that have a specific function .
they &apos;re preferred to be light , sound , engine and sensor .
and the best part is that they connect with magnets .
that &apos;s how you can &apos;t put them right around .
the stones are color-coded .
green is a copy , blue is electricity , pink is input , and orange is cable .
go and squawks of leonard cohen .
so all you have to do is connect a blue and a green one , and you can build larger circles very quickly .
you add a blue one to a green one , and you can make light .
they can put a switch in between , and so they made a little dimmer .
take the switch out to add a pulsmodule , which is here , and they made a little blinker .
add this buzzer to an extra effect , and they made a noise machine .
i &apos;m going to stop that .
beyond the simple game , littlebits is actually quite powerful .
instead of having to program , wired or resolve , littlebits allows them to code with simple , intuitive gestures .
so to speed up or slow the blink , just turn on this button , and it makes the pulse faster or slower .
the idea behind littlebits is that it &apos;s a growing library .
his whole process of work has changed after that .
we want to bring every single interaction in the world into a useful stone .
lights , sounds , solar elements , motors -- everything should be available .
we &apos;ve distributed littlebits to children and we &apos;ve seen them play with it .
and it was an incredible experience .
the most beautiful thing is , how do you start to understand the electronics that surround you in everyday life , and they don &apos;t learn in school .
like , for example , a night light works , or why the doors of the elevator remain open , or how an ipod reacts to touch .
we also brought littlebits to design schools .
so , for example , we had designers with no experience in electronic things that started playing with littlebits as a material .
here we see , with filce , paper and water bottles , like geordie ...
a few weeks ago , we took littlebits to risd , and we gave them some designers who had no technical experience -- just karton , wood and paper -- and we told them , &quot; do something . &quot;
not the work itself . it was still as dark as ever .
so here &apos;s an example of a project that they did , a motion-controlled confetti-cannon .
but wait , this is really my favorite project .
it &apos;s a play-doh hummer that &apos;s scared in the darkness .
for these non-engineers , littlebits became another material , electronics just became another material .
and we want to make this material available for everyone .
so littlebits is open source .
you can go down to the website , download all the design directions and make them yourself .
we want the world of the creators , the inventors , the contributors , because this world that we live in , this interactive world , belongs to us .
so , go ahead and start inventing .
thank you .
but the process and the heavy envelope that surrounds it was lifted up when he took out the genius , where he wasn &apos;t going to make any trouble and left him where he came from . he realized that it didn &apos;t have to be an internalized , agonizing thing .
there could be a strange , wonderful , bizarre collaboration , a kind of conversation between tom and the alien , external thing that wasn &apos;t quite tom .
when i heard this story , it also changed the way i worked , and it rescued me a little bit .
this idea saved me when i was in the middle of the writing process , pray , love , and i fell into one of those pit of doubt that we all fall into when we work on something and it doesn &apos;t work . you start thinking it &apos;s going to be a disaster . that &apos;s going to be the worst book ever written .
not just bad , but the worst of all time .
they call themselves the older brothers and say that we are responsible for destroying the world .
i started to think i should just triple the project .
but then i remembered how tom talked in the open sky , and i tried .
so i took a look at the manuscript , and i spoke my comment towards a blank corner of space .
i spoke out loud : listen , you thing , you and i know both , if this book isn &apos;t brilliant , it &apos;s not completely my fault , right ?
because you see that i &apos;m investing everything i have , i don &apos;t have more than that .
so if you want to have it better , you have to check up here and hold your share of the deal .
okay . but if you don &apos;t do that , you know what the hell it is .
i &apos;m still going to write , because that &apos;s my job .
and i would like to give you protocol that i was here today for my part of the job .
because ... at the end , it &apos;s like this . centuries ago , in the deserts of north africa , people have gathered to monthly fests with holy dances and music that have been lasted for hours -- until the dawn of dawn .
now this level of intuition becomes very important .
these solids were always great , because the dancers were professional , and they were fantastic .
but over and over again , very rarely , something special happened , and one of the performers actually became overwhelmed .
and i know you know what i mean , because i know you &apos;ve all seen such a performance in your life .
it was like the time was standing still and the dancer was walking through a kind of a pforte . he didn &apos;t do anything but he ever did it -- 1,000 nights before , but everything was combining .
and all of a sudden , he no longer seemed human .
it was lit up by the inside , and it was lit up from the bottom , and everything was lit up by a divine fire .
when something like that happened , people knew what it was . they called it his name .
they put their hands together , and they started singing : dear , allah , allah , allah , god , god , god .
that &apos;s god , you know ?
interesting historical footnote : when the moirs were conquering south spain , they brought this practice , and the language changed over the centuries of deployment , allah , allah , to a loaf , olé , olé , that you still hear in the fight and flameno dances .
whenever we think of the infants and the landscape , we either complain rousseau and the old scaffolding of the noble wild , which in his simplification is a racial thought or , on the other hand , thoreau and say , these people are more connected to nature than we are .
if a performer in spain has done something impossible , something magical , which is , like , olé , olé , allah , great , bravo , it &apos;s unbelievable , there it is : a glimpse of god .
and that &apos;s great , because we need that .
but the tricky part follows the next morning when the dancer himself wakes up and realizes that it &apos;s 11 o &apos;clock on a tuesday -- and he no longer wears a fifth of god .
he &apos;s just an aging mortality with painful knees , and maybe he &apos;s never going to get up to those heights again .
and maybe no one will ever call god &apos;s name when he turns , but what should he do with the rest of his life ?
that &apos;s hard .
this is one of the most painful corrections of a creative life .
but maybe it doesn &apos;t have to be so full of embarrassment if you didn &apos;t believe at the beginning that the most extraordinary aspects of your existence came from you .
if you just think you &apos;re a loan -- from an unthinkable source for a reader time in your life that &apos;s passed on to somebody else when you &apos;re done with it .
when we start thinking about it , it changes everything .
so , infants are not sentimental , nor are they being weighed by nostalgia .
so i started thinking , and so i think , surely in the past few months , working on the book that &apos;s going to seem soon -- when the dangerous , scary , strongly anticipated successor of my descended success .
what i have to say to myself , when i get crazy about this , is that i &apos;m not afraid .
don &apos;t be discouraged .
just do your job .
still be there for your contribution , whatever it is it might be .
if your job is dancing , dance .
if the dumb divine genius that you have put aside , for a moment , decides to show a smoke of wonder through your effort , then it &apos;s something .
and if not , you dance anyway .
and wholé ! for you , despite all of that .
i believe that , and i feel that we should teach that .
there &apos;s not a lot of space for this in the malaria swamps of asmat or the cold winds of tibet , but they still , through time and ritual , shaped a mysterious nimbus of the earth , which is not based on the idea of being consciously close , but on a far more subtle intuition , the idea that the earth can only exist , because it &apos;s being breathed into the human consciousness .
for you , despite all of this , just for having the mere human love and self-sense of being there .
thank you .
thank you .
olé !
last year , i showed these two slides to illustrate that the arctic ice caps , which for approximately three million years , had shrunk the size of the lower 48 states by 40 percent .
but that doesn &apos;t really express the seriousness of this particular problem , because it doesn &apos;t show the thick of the ice .
in a sense , the arctic ice caps are the beating heart of our global climate system .
it grows in winter and shrinks in summer .
the next slide i &apos;m going to show you is a time-lapse of what &apos;s happened in the last 25 years .
the permanent ice is labeled with red .
well , what does that mean ?
as you can see , it &apos;s growing on the dark blue . this is the annual ice in winter , and it &apos;s shrinking in summer .
the so-called permanent ice cream , five years old or older , is almost like blood flowing out of the body here .
in 25 years , it will be gone from here to here .
this is a problem , because warming is the frozen reason for the arctic ocean , where there are large amounts of frozen carbon , which , when it &apos;s looking up , is transformed from microbes to methane .
compared to the entire amount of climate change materials in the atmosphere , this amount could double if we cross this critical point .
already today , in some flat lakes in alaska methane , it &apos;s the water itself .
professor katey walter at the university of alaska traveled to another group of work in lake last winter .
wow !
you do it well . the question is , how will we get there ?
and one reason is that this enormous heat bullet warms up greenland from the north .
it means that a little child from the andean who grows up in the belief that the mountain is an apu-mind that will be or determine their fate will become a very different person , and will have a different relationship with this resource or this place , as a little child from montana , who grows up in the belief that a mountain is a bunch of stones that can be worn off .
this is an annual diving river .
but volume is much larger than ever before .
this is the canger suaq river in southwest greenland .
if you want to know how the sea level rises through the land ice sheet , it flows into the sea .
these rivers are rapidly growing .
at the other end of the planet , antarctica , the largest ice mass on the planet .
last month , researchers reported that the entire continent now has a negative ice sheet .
and the west antarctica , which has emerged over a few underwater islands , is particularly strong in melting .
this is the equivalent of 20 feet of sea level , like greenland .
in the himalayas , the third largest ice mass , you see new lakes up there that were glaciers a few years ago .
whether it &apos;s a locality of a mind or a bunch of inheritance , it &apos;s irrelevant .
40 percent of all the people in the world get half of their drinking water from this melting water .
in the andean , this glacier is the drinking water source for this city .
the amount of water has increased .
but if you defeat , most of the drinking water will fall away .
in california , a 40 percent reduction of the snow ceiling of the sierra .
this is the memory basin .
and the predictions that you &apos;ve read are serious .
this austroke all over the world leads to a dramatic increase in fire .
and the catastrophes all over the world have been in a really extraordinary and unprecedented extent .
four times as many in the last 30 years as in the previous 75 .
the interesting thing is the metaphor that defines the relationship between the individual and nature .
this is a completely unsustainable pattern of development .
if you look at this in historical context , you can see what it &apos;s doing .
in the last five years , we &apos;ve produced 70 million tons of co2 every 24 hours -- 25 million tons a day into the oceans .
look closely at the area of the eastern pacific , from the american continent west and both sides of the indian subcontinent , where there is a dramatic decline in oxygen in the ocean .
the biggest single factor for global warming , besides deforestation , which is 20 percent , is burning fossil fuels .
oil is a problem , and coal is the biggest problem .
the united states is one of the two largest pollutants , along with china .
and the proposal was to build many more coal factories .
but we &apos;re starting to see a change .
here are the ones that have been stripped in the last few years , with some green alternatives that have been proposed .
i grew up in the forests of british colombia , and i believed that these forests were there to be devastated .
meanwhile , there &apos;s a political debate in our country .
and the coal industries and oil dustries have spent a quarter billion dollars last calendars to promote clean coal , which is a contradiction in itself .
this picture reminded me of something .
running around christmas , at home in tennessee , a billion tons of coal lamb .
you may have seen it in the news .
this is the second largest waste flow in america in our entire country .
this happened around christmas .
one of the commercials of the coal industry for christmas was this .
frosty the carbon man is a delight , happy guy .
it &apos;s in skin and abundance in america , and it helps our economy grow .
that made me another person than my friends under the kwakiutl , who believe that these forests of the contains of hukuk and the curved celestial spirits and the cannibalism that live on the north of the world , spirits that they would be involved in their hamatsa-initiation .
frosty , the carbon man gets cleaner every day .
it &apos;s affordable , and it &apos;s worth loving , and workers remain in wages and bread .
this is the source of most coal in west virginia .
the most powerful miner is the head of massey coal .
let me tell you one thing , al gore , nancy pelosi , harry reid , you don &apos;t know what you &apos;re talking about .
so the alliance for climate change has created two campaigns .
this is one , one part of her .
at coalergy , we see climate change as a serious danger for our business .
so we set it to the top line to spend a substantial amount of money to get a commercial action on the way to get the truth about coal .
in fact , coal is not dirty .
now , if you start to look at the idea that these cultures can create different realities , you can understand some of their extraordinary discoveries , like this plant here .
we think it &apos;s clean -- and it smells good .
so , don &apos;t worry about climate change .
let &apos;s leave that quietly to us .
clean coal , you &apos;ve heard a lot about it .
so let &apos;s do a tour of this modern , clean coal factory .
fantastic ! this machine is pretty loud .
but it &apos;s the sound of clean coal technology .
and yet burning coal is one of the main reasons for global warming , the remarkably clean coal technology you see here , changes everything .
look at it carefully , this is today &apos;s clean coal technology .
finally , the positive alternative is mixing with our economic challenge and our challenge of national security .
all of these people teach us that there are other possibilities of existence , other ways of thinking , other ways of orienting on earth .
it &apos;s a photograph i just took last april in the northwest of the amazon .
america is in a crisis , the economy , the national security , the climate crisis .
the red thread that connects them all is our dependence on carbon-based fuels like filthy coal and foreign oil .
but now there &apos;s a bold new solution to get us out of this miserable situation .
supply america with 100 percent clean electricity over the next 10 years .
a plan to bring america back to work , to make us safer and to help stop global warming .
finally , a solution that &apos;s big enough to solve our problems .
supply america new . find out more .
this is the last one .
it &apos;s about a new supply of america .
one of the fastest ways of reducing our dependence on old , dirty fuels that are sticking our world .
this is ayahuasca , which many of you have heard about , the most powerful psychoactive preparate from the repertoire of the shame .
the future is here . wind , sun and a new energy system .
new investment to create well-paid jobs .
supply america is new . it &apos;s time to accept reality .
there &apos;s an old african adage : &quot; if you want to be fast , go by yourself .
if you want to get far , go together . &quot;
we have to get far , very quickly .
thank you .
i want to start by asking you to think back to the time you were a kid when you were playing with building blocks .
as they realized how to reach out and grab the hands , take the blocks and move them , they actually learned to think and solve problems through understanding and changing spatial coherence .
the spatial thinking is closely connected to how we understand most of our environment .
as a computer scientist -- inspired by the way we interact with real objects -- along with my professional patti and my colleague , jeevan kalanithi , i started to wonder : what if we used computers that , instead of a mouse cursor that moves like a digital fingertip on a flat surface of work ... what if we could intervene with both hands and physically grab data and grab it in the way we want it ?
this question was so profound that we decided to explore the answer , and we developed siftables .
in short , a siftable is an interactive computer the size of a cookie .
you can be moved by your hand , you can perceive each other , you can detect your movements , and you have a screen and a radio receiver .
more importantly , they &apos;re physical , so you can only move them like building blocks by extending your hands and access .
and the siftables are an example of a new generation of tools for manipulation of digital data .
and when these tools become more physical and develop a conscious mind for their movements , recognizing each other and perceiving the hostiles of our relationship with them , we can start to explore new and entertaining interactions .
i &apos;m going to start with some simple examples .
this siftable is designed for the video reference , and if i dump it in one direction , the video is played forward ; if i dumped it in the other direction , it &apos;s going backwards .
and these interactive portraits are true of each other .
this plant contains some very strong tryptamins that are very similar to the serotonin , dimethyltryptamin 5 and methoxydimedal tryptamin .
so when i put them side-by-side , that &apos;s what interests them .
if you &apos;re surrounded by the indians , you &apos;ll notice that , and you can get a little nervous .
and they also feel their movements and their propensity .
one interesting consequence of the interactions that we started to recognize was that we could apply everyday gestures to data , like shooting colors like doing it with fluids .
in this case , we designed three siftables as pots of color , and i can use them to cast color in the middle , where they &apos;re then mixed .
if we exaggerate it , we can go back a little bit .
there are also some nice opportunities in education like languages , mathematics or logic games , where we want to give people the possibility of fast trial and see the results immediately .
here i am -- this is a fibonacci series that i do with a simple equilibrium program .
this is a game with words , which is a kind of mixture of scrabble and boggle .
basically , you get every round on every siftable letter , and while you &apos;re trying to make words , they &apos;re checked over a dictionary .
if you &apos;ve seen the yanomami , as you &apos;re sniffing this stuff , this substance that you &apos;re making from different species also contains methoxydimethyltryptamin .
then , after about 30 seconds , you get remixed , and you have a new letter combination and new possibilities to try .
thank you .
these are some kids who came to the media lab on a trip , and i could get them to try and take a video of this .
they really loved it .
one interesting thing about this kind of applications is that you don &apos;t have to give people a lot of instructions .
all you have to say is &quot; form words , &quot; and you know exactly what to do .
here are a few more people testing it .
this is our youngest beta-tester down there on the lower right .
it turned out he just wanted to stack the siftables .
so for him , they were just building blocks .
and sniffing this powder is kind of like being shot out of a rifle , saturated by baroque paintings and landing on a sea of electricity .
this is an interactive trickster twist .
we wanted to develop an educational tool for language learners .
this is felix .
he can bring new characters into the scene by lifting the siftable from the table that shows this character .
this is him going up the sun .
the sun goes up .
now he &apos;s bringing a tractor into the scene .
the orange tractor .
good work ! yeah !
by shaking the siftables and putting them next to each other , he can let the characters interact ...
it &apos;s not going to create distortion of reality , but the resolution of reality .
... inventing his own story .
hello !
it &apos;s a story with open end , and it can decide how it evolves .
flying cat .
the last example that i have time to show you today is a music sequencer for live performances that we &apos;ve recently developed and operate in the siftables as sound , like leadership , bass and drums .
each one has four different variations ; you can choose which one you want to use .
and you can put those notes into the sequence , which you can put in any pattern .
and you feed them in by just holding a ton siftable to a sequencing sift .
there are effects that you can change live , like hall and filters .
you connect it to a particular tone , and then you tend to hire it .
i even , with my professor , richard evan shultes , the man who introduced the psychedelic estate with the discovery of the magic mushrooms in mexico in the 30s , discussed it , and i said that you couldn &apos;t classify those tryptamins as hallucinators , because the moment you feel the impact , you &apos;re not there to experience a hallucination .
and then even more arranged effects like speed and volume that you apply to the entire sequence .
so let &apos;s see .
we start by eating the leadership voice in two sequencing siftable , and putting it in a row , expanding it and adding a little bit more of the voice .
now i add a bass .
now , i &apos;m going to do some more drums .
and now i &apos;m joining the filter with the drums so i can control the effect live .
i can accelerate the whole sequence by tipping the pace one way or another .
and now i &apos;m going to combine the filter with the bass , for a little bit more expression .
i can reframe the sequence as it &apos;s going on .
so i don &apos;t have to plan them in the field , but i can improvise them ; they expand or shorter .
but the thing about tryptamins is that they can &apos;t be taken orally , because , of course , through a human gut , they &apos;re called monoamin oxidase , denaturized .
and finally , i can shut the whole sequence out by pinching the volume siftable to the left .
thank you .
so as you can see , my excitement is to develop new human-computer interfaces that fit better with how our brains and bodies work .
and today i had time to show you a part of this new design world and some of the possibilities of what we &apos;re working on in our lab .
the idea i want to leave you with is that we are at the threshold of this new generation of advertising tools for interacting with digital media , bringing information into our world , which corresponds to our demands .
thank you .
i &apos;m looking forward to talking to all of you .
yeah , good afternoon .
i &apos;m glad i &apos;m there .
yeah , so what should be biohacking ?
they can only be linked to a few other chemicals , or the mao denaturize .
i have to get a little bit out of it , and that &apos;s biohacking is looking at modern molecular biology .
i &apos;ve been studying molecular biology , and i &apos;ve been doing biohacking for a few years now , and i &apos;ve started that , because i just wanted to know more about it , and i wanted to do it myself , which i &apos;ve been learning theoretically in college .
so , that was my primary motivation .
so it was a curiosity , and i wanted to sort of get closer to the matter , like that .
i think molecular biology in general now , generally speaking , biotechnology , everything you count on , synthetic biology and so on .
extremely important is , now , extremely important , and much , much more important , in the future .
there &apos;s such a controversial thing as all these genetically engineered plants in the corners .
there &apos;s craig venter in the u.s. now , trying to make biofuel , which is gasoline from algae .
among them , there are things that have been completely immersed in the everyday , which most people don &apos;t even realize , for example , washy enzymes that allow us to wash at 40 degrees of laundry are also genetically optimized enzymes .
and you can continue the list endlessly .
and that &apos;s an idea that , if you think about it , can only fulfill you with hope .
now the fascinating thing is that the carbonates that are in the liane are mao-inhibitors of exactly the kind that &apos;s necessary to power the tryptamins . so ask yourself .
and so , from the interest of this technology , i went further in there .
that &apos;s why hacking now ?
most people know this from the software domain .
computers hack , and then in the media , it &apos;s always going to be , yes , the hackers break in somewhere , clapping data and so on .
it &apos;s kind of very sad for the hacker scene , because that &apos;s not what she actually started out like , and what &apos;s actually behind it .
and that is , the software hackers , in the &apos; 70s , started out with computer tinkering , and that &apos;s what came out of the internet .
and it &apos;s about solving a playful , creative , original way of solving a problem .
and problem , it &apos;s not just a technical problem , it can also be a social problem , it can be just a problem of access , which is how things simplify , so any problem you have to throw up a question , and how do you do it differently , or how do you do it better .
and it &apos;s just been raised with software , but there &apos;s also in the electronics area , there &apos;s also a whole tinkering scene that , using electronics circuits , there &apos;s all kinds of discarded things .
and now , also , in towards biology , and i want to take this metaphor that comes from synthetic biology , that biology is actually an information science , because the d.n. code is an abstract code that &apos;s yes , it &apos;s not quite the same as computers , because it &apos;s more dynamic , because it &apos;s matter , so it &apos;s real matter , and it &apos;s not just cyber .
how can these people from a flora of 80,000 species of adstrinating plants find these two morphologically unrelated plants that , when combined in this way , create a kind of biochemical version , so that the whole thing is larger than the sum of its parts ?
but it &apos;s also a code , and you can also program it , and you can also hack it , so i found it incredibly fascinating , and i just wanted to get a lot deeper with it .
this has actually only taken two thousand really shape , these networks .
there &apos;s hackteria dot org , which is originally from switzerland , which is with europe and with a cooperation in india , but now has members or active people all over the world .
this is a more artistic orientation , so there &apos;s a lot of artists and philosophers and working with scientists to try to deal with these technologies and ask questions and process them creatively , there &apos;s museum exhibitions and yes , all kinds of things .
but , in fact , it &apos;s all about finding such a locker access to this kind of playful way .
and then there &apos;s do-it-yourself dot org , d.i.y.bio .
this is from the united states , a network , which is actually more of a kind of forum where you &apos;re going to stop and discuss online .
they &apos;re a little bit more technically oriented , and they &apos;re also a little bit more business , and they &apos;re also being asked , yes , applied questions .
and from these networks that have made the whole popular , it has evolved a scene like this that i want to portray for a moment .
here in the image on the upper left , you see biocurious , which is a hackerspace , which is basically a kind of a school , a private school , a nonprofit facility where everybody can come from .
we use this great euphemism , trial and error , which turns out to be meaningless .
kids , old , all kinds of people go there to just sit down with it , they set up a lab , and they look at what can you do when these lab protocols .
here on the lower left is a group in indonesia , house-of-natural fibers , but they &apos;ve been around for quite a long time .
for longer than these two other networks .
they also work in such an artistic aspect of biological materials , and , yes , electronics bastles , and they combine it in a fairly remote way .
a group of ankara , which i met a while ago , and they did this , which is a group of students who wanted to communicate more to the public what they learned in college , and they did this on the street , and they tried to explain what d.n.a is .
and i have a lecture up in the other image in copenhagen at the medical museum in combination with an exhibition on the subject .
and that is , yes , that &apos;s mostly quite young people , but the only thing that really brings you all together is this fascination of technology .
and what you can do with it , and just really , really aimed at society to go and ask , &quot; okay , what do you know what do you want to do , do you have an interest in bringing you into it ? &quot;
so , o.k , now to hack biology , you need some material .
you need , of course , biological materials , and you also need tools , and that &apos;s a lab .
but you ask the indians , they say , &quot; the plant speaks to us . &quot;
or what you normally understand under a lab , which is sort of a ridden machine , extremely expensive , extremely distant , just for professionals , trained academics with ph.d. and so on .
and our approach was to say , well , ok , you don &apos;t actually have to do that .
it &apos;s actually not necessary because every coffeemaker actually has higher sophistication technology than most laboratories , that &apos;s really the case .
and s o with this premise then , for example , brian degger in england tried to put together a minimum abor , then took a steam printing chef , a hot plate , and , yes , so soul , and then grew bacteria , worked .
so anybody who &apos;s been playful for a soup that he &apos;s been left for too long .
i then tried this in my lab at home to expand a little bit , and then i bought myself a second-hand tool on ebay and did a little bit of d.n.a analysis , tried to do a father &apos;s test , which is like this , d.n. fingerprinting , to do it back home .
now , this shouldn &apos;t be a joke at all , but .
at the bottom here in the picture , you see the lab , in leadership stripes , so one of these garage , with all kinds of lab scaffolding that the university has embedded in , a group in paris that &apos;s been doing something , and it &apos;s pretty successful , and it also does quite interesting things , and i want to cut on a project for a second .
and this is biocurious , who just mentioned hackerspace , this one , this kind of folk school , basically for molecular biology .
and yeah , so , you see , it &apos;s relatively heterogeneous , so that &apos;s what people are doing in their home alone , to large , larger organizations that are doing this more formal in institutionalized form .
so , what does that mean ?
but it &apos;s always the approach that it should be easy and accessible .
the first project that we did as an international group , when we became sort of aware of ourselves , o.k , it &apos;s now there &apos;s us as a real scene , and we &apos;re online , and we know the people who are always chatting and so on .
and then it just came from the do-it-yourself website of the founder , and said , o.k , we &apos;ve got to really meet now , we &apos;ve got to meet real , and then it &apos;s organized two events , one in london , two thousand 10 , and shortly in the u.s. s.a , in san francisco .
and it was also , yes , who are we , what do we want , what do we want to share ?
and what are our values and what are our goals , our foundation ?
and that &apos;s where we then worked out a code-of-conduct .
that was pretty intuitive , so everybody just expressed their wishes , their wishes , and what &apos;s moving them , then .
there was , in my opinion , a very good code .
and then we didn &apos;t have that , but this is , you know , i think , pretty well enforced , people are quite convinced of that .
and we even tried to bring that back to the academic world , but it didn &apos;t sort of get there .
this tribe , the cofan , has 17 varieties of ayahuasca that you all recognize at a distance in the forest that seems to be a species for our eyes .
so i think we &apos;re from the biohacker scene , in fact , one step further than the academic world .
yeah , what kind of projects are we doing now ?
one project that i did with the hackteria network in switzerland itself was that we wanted to build a so-called optical trap or optical pink .
this is , if you focus a laser beam on one in the room , you can catch little particles in the air or in the liquid and then move in that focus , so it &apos;s captured there , like a tractorbeam beam beam , basically .
this really works , this is done in the academic setting , and then we thought , o.k , we might get this one , then we took a webcam that screwed up , turned the lens off , turned around , you have a microscope that increases about four hundred times .
you can see that down there .
and then we took a d.v. d brenner apart , and we took the torch out the laser , and then we tried to focus on this camera .
and that didn &apos;t work , unfortunately , but we learned a lot about it anyway .
this is another project that came out of the french group in paris , which worked , which is pretty cool .
and he &apos;s got , you know , a brain wave measuring device , like e.e. or something like that , so he &apos;s been looking at neurobiology , his nickname is sam neurohack .
and then they ask them how they start their taxonomy , and they say , &quot; i thought you &apos;d understand something about plants .
he then built this helmet there , and in the cooperation with the museum , that &apos;s what went on .
and then the visitors could go in the room , sit on this chair , sit down this helmet .
then their brainwaves were measured , and depending on what they thought or how they thought they were going to be different lights in the room .
it was a pretty fateful project .
another thing from the united states , which has to do with this paternity story , is the p.c.r , which is the polymer chain response , complicated word .
so it &apos;s about copying genes , replicating genes , d.n.a , making fragments so that you can make them visible .
so if i do that now , the profilers in the crime scene , go and collect some hair samples , and then they do that method , and then you can say , o.k , this hair belongs to this person , like that .
and the machines that do something like this , they &apos;re pretty expensive to buy commercially , and the cheapest ones go down to four thousand euros .
and that &apos;s not in the hobbyists , but it &apos;s a really cool technology that can do a lot .
so this is just one application of many that you can do with this .
i mean , you know nothing at all ? &quot; and i said , &quot; no . &quot;
and they ran out of two of these , two builders , and they said , okay , we &apos;re going to make this easier and cheaper , and then they &apos;re going to be out of open source , so free hardware , electronics , and they &apos;re going to be able to put this device together , and they &apos;re now the cheapest providers of these devices in the world .
i think , kind of , six dollars or something like that .
but anyway , it &apos;s still not cheap now , but it &apos;s definitely in a framework where it becomes more available .
so , i think it &apos;s a very promised hack .
one project that i had recently started building was a gene-gun .
gene-gun is , yes , like a kind of air pressure gun , which shoots about this far , two inches or so .
you put the d.n.a on gold particles and the gold particles in these air pressure pistol , and then i shot them on onions , and then i illuminated them like this .
so the device that you see there , that didn &apos;t work .
but this is my prototype , but it was kind of like this , on a branch like this , the thing on it , electronics on it and pressure , and that was the pressure too high , the thing was broken .
and then i took a saint pender and i put it on .
well , it turns out that you take each of the 17 varieties on the full moon and they sing to one in a different scale .
a juice pender , if you make it full of water , has enough pressure , so i think , 40 to six , bar on it .
and then you can accelerate the particles very much enough , and then they go into the onion .
and the commercial device costs about five thousand euros upward , or something like that , which is about 50 .
so it doesn &apos;t have the same efficiency , but it &apos;s basically doable .
so this is also , at the moment , the core cause of the scene , to increase the availability of technology , and also to increase the information and the understanding that more people can get involved in it .
because , as i said in the beginning , it &apos;s an extremely important technology , and most people have relatively little idea of it , and also no chance to be really good at it .
because , if you just read about it , from secondary literature , that &apos;s not the same as if you did it yourself or saw it .
and i think technology is becoming more and more important in our modern societies .
and if you want to be able to make meaningful decisions in society as an informed citizen , you need access to knowledge and technology .
and you also have to do it and understand it to do it and understand it .
now , that doesn &apos;t get you a ph.d. at harvard , but it &apos;s much more interesting than counting stamina .
and that then , under the headlines , is open knowledge and citizen science .
so , you know , as citizens , you &apos;re being able to be able to deal with these scientific technologies .
and this is the core cause of the biohackers .
these are the people who have contributed officially on the website , d.i.y. bio-dot-org website .
this is already a relatively remarkable number of people around the world .
and what &apos;s interesting is that they &apos;re also in southeast asia .
that &apos;s what i think they &apos;re there for less people than actually existing .
so i know from some of you who didn &apos;t join .
and these are just the biohackers now , the individual people .
in part , with these hackerspaces , which are the places that are put together .
