you know , one of the great reasons in traveling and one of the joys in ethnography is to live with the people who still remember the old days , and who still feel their past in the wind , touch them on the rainfall , taste them in the bitter leaves of the plants .
together , the myriad cultures of the world form a web of spiritual and cultural life that wraps the earth up and is as important for the good of the earth as the biological life web that you know as the biosphere .
now , the problem -- the problem is that even those of us who have sympathy for the difficult situation of the innate , look at them as orginial and colorful , but they sort of confined to the past , while the real world , that is our world , is progressing .
and that &apos;s in the very beginning .
as i said , two-thousand-thinking has just begun .
and hackerspaces , the computer hackerspaces , because the c-base in berlin was the first , nine-tenths of five funding .
and this has now become a gigantic network of very good , yes , infrastructural centers that are represented all over the world .
and we &apos;re hoping , of course , that we &apos;re going to spread in a similar way , and then we &apos;re going to be pretty much connected , so that more people can be involved .
and i would invite everyone to deal with it and also try something .
it &apos;s not that simple now , but it &apos;s not impossible , if you have enough curiosity and you have enough energy in it , you get a long way .
thank you for listening .
that &apos;s it .
yeah , hello .
so , the fact is that in the 20th century , in 300 years , you will remember not for your wars or your technological innovations , but rather than an era where we were against and the massive destruction of the biological and cultural diversity on earth either actively supported or passively accepted . so the problem is not the change .
how do we actually work to people ?
this is a question that really moves me as a designer , but also in the field of research , usability , and in all things in user-experience .
it &apos;s about how to encounter people in interactive media , so that they can use these interactive media , and so they can create a very satisfying experience .
because i think that interactive media in us addresses archaic , cognitive models , so thinking patterns that have been programmed in our biological memory very , very long ago , and that we can just bring them back through interactive media .
and this is very amazing , because you actually believe that this high-tech that you &apos;re facing is that it actually brings you into the future , but in fact , the future is right with us , in our archaic roots .
now , what are archaic models ?
i once wrote down four words , and i &apos;d like to explain them briefly .
to archaic cognitive models , these are the models that we have adapted in the pre-industrial times .
these archaic models are that we have basically a natural relationship with virtuality .
that sounds kind of unusual for the first time .
all cultures have been involved in the dance with new possibilities of life .
but i &apos;m going to go back to that , and i &apos;m going to try and prove to you that you also have a natural relationship with virtuality .
the second thing is that since we &apos;ve been through these archaic models , we &apos;ve been able to speak very , very imagery , even though we &apos;re using a codified language today .
and the third area , which actually explains itself .
we all know that interactive media is by definition non-linear , which includes the sensitivity of linearity , and which , of course , tells us that we feel the linearity today as normal .
the fourth thing is that history for us is a place of information .
now , what about virtuality , which is actually the most natural thing in the world .
i &apos;d like to prove that to you .
how many doors does the house you live in ?
we &apos;re not going to be able to answer that immediately , but this is what &apos;s going to happen , and it &apos;s going to happen right now .
they go through this house in the mind , so they live , and they look at how many doors there are .
and the problem is not the technology itself .
and that &apos;s what they do .
they virtualize reality without computers .
fantastic , right ?
and we &apos;re struggling to do this at the media campus , for example , the virtual reality in our v.r. lab , where we can actually do this all the time .
and that wealth to virtualize virtual reality , that people in the pre-industrial times also needed bitter , because they didn &apos;t have anything .
they didn &apos;t have books .
or they didn &apos;t have photooligraphy .
they didn &apos;t have mass media .
the only thing they had was their head .
and in this head , the memory was going on .
the sioux indians didn &apos;t listen to being on sioux when they were doing bow and arrow when americans stopped being americans when they were doing horses and horse cars .
in this head , knowledge was called out , and with these virtual images , the imagination , knowledge was passed on .
and so it &apos;s also so much rooted in us that we can deal with virtuality so well .
the interesting thing about this is , if i can make a little trip .
yeah , that &apos;s going to happen .
the interesting thing about this is that at that time , the human being was both media producers and medium itself .
now , if you think a little bit further .
what are media today ?
then you &apos;ll notice that there was a change .
but that &apos;s what i &apos;m going to talk about in a moment .
crucial tools of information mediation have been stories all the time .
not change and technology threatens the integrity of the ethnosphere . it &apos;s power . the ugly face of the rule .
shamanas , priests , so-called knowledge waters , were extra to keep knowledge in stories .
and even today , we &apos;re still very , very strong on stories .
the author of the book the storytelling animal , jonathan gotchall , we &apos;re still interacting with a thousand hours a year with the recipe of stories .
that means to a child who has spent most of his life receptioning the greatness .
now we think our love of stories depends on us as a child sitting on our parents &apos; lap .
no , no , far missing .
that goes much further back into pre-industrial cultures .
but to me , in the realm of interactive media , what &apos;s most impressive is that , by the way , we &apos;ve anchored in our biological memory , the ability to think nonlinear .
i brought you an example from the north american tribe of the nootka native american .
and life lived in the coastal region of british columbia .
and as you can see , this is a very island area , and you kind of had to navigate from island to island to get food .
and they did this with something called lead maps .
you may know that , if you &apos;re a little bit interested in this , from the australian native people .
they have similar principles .
they didn &apos;t have lead-maps , they used the so-called songlines , or traumas .
and what &apos;s interesting about this is that the navigation and the topography of regions could be mapped over songs .
where the language was subordinated from the bottom line .
that means you were navigating about sound and about rhythm .
and of course , these sounds and these rhythms have been the geology , which is the topography of a region , and that has allowed you to defragment these songs and put them together differently and move back to the left , to the right , and also to the output again .
why don &apos;t we sing to come from top of a to b ?
or if we go to the mountains of tibet , where i study a lot recently , you &apos;ll see the ugly face of political dominance .
anyway , not to navigate .
what actually happened there ?
it &apos;s what &apos;s happened is the so-called machine age .
we &apos;ve moved to the so-called avian age before .
it &apos;s the machine age , and it &apos;s the book , and it &apos;s the photoligraphy that happens .
and that &apos;s what &apos;s happened is that we &apos;ve shifted the responsibility for our memories and the production of our individual memories to external media .
on the book and on the picture .
so , unfortunately , we have a little bit of a virtualization of god .
virtuality has suddenly become alien to us , and has nothing to do with reality .
bruce brown , a well-known design researcher at brighton university , has gone so far as to say that this mass media , he means the book and the image , so not the television , the internet , etc . , and so on , what we call mass media today , that these mass media has fossilized our memories and retained our ability to virtualize .
you know , the genocide , the physical extinction of people is generally convicted , but the ethnocid , the destruction of people &apos;s lifestyle , is not only convicted , but in general and in many ways , as part of a development strategy .
let &apos;s make a little bit of a difference .
from the avian age to the machine age .
what &apos;s affecting our thinking and our memories ?
then the interconnected influences of pre-industrial cultures .
and they &apos;ve been more and more written over the course of the centuries by the influences of the machine age .
that is , instead of remembering ourselves individually , we have standardized , widespread patterns of memories that we can hang our personal memories on .
we &apos;re no longer producing ourselves .
we have an abstract language of abstract language .
we &apos;re not imagining the thing in pictures that &apos;s not in pictures anymore , but we &apos;re coding it to you our language .
we &apos;ve been used to things being linear .
and you can &apos;t understand the suffering of tibetan if you haven &apos;t experienced it at the bottom level .
and we accepted the linearity as a law , and there are only exceptions , like the non-linearity .
what we &apos;ve remained is the storytelling .
still , we &apos;re very , very arrested to the storytelling as an information investigation .
the question is , what &apos;s next ?
we had the vocabulary age , we had the machine age , and we now described the so-called cyber-age .
it sounds very spacey , and it sounds very much like science fiction , i know .
but these concepts of the cyberage are bringing us back to these possibilities of rediscovering our capabilities .
it &apos;s about virtuality , it &apos;s about non-linearity , it &apos;s about storytelling .
i want to just explain that a little bit .
there are technical concepts like augmented reality , which means augmented reality .
you can think of this cultural life web as an ethnosphere . ethnosphere can be defined as the sum of all thoughts and dreams , myths of ideas , inspiration and intuitions that have been brought out by the human imagination since the beginnings of consciousness .
i once traveled with a young colleague 6,000 miles from chengdu in western china through southeast tibet to lhasa , and it wasn &apos;t until i came to lhasa that i saw the face behind the statistics that you hear . 6,000 sacred monuments that were turned into rubble and ashes . 1.2 million people who were killed by the cades during the cultural revolution .
so if you look at google glasses , for example , then a concept like this is what makes us recombine the virtual world with the real world , which means our affinity to virtualization , to feel the virtual as something normal , natural , is addressed again .
another example is what we call virtual reality .
so , of course , as crazy as that might sound in the context of my talk , we &apos;re physically moving in non-existential , virtual worlds , just after the holodeck model .
and other examples are the ambient , intelligent systems .
these are rooms that are smart to respond to a human .
all of this requires the ability to accept our basic ability to accept virtuality as a real habitat .
i graduated , and i hope the video will work , a very , very beautiful project , which is the work of michael burk , ann-kathrin krence , joris klause and janitz garbage .
and the last two are also here today .
maybe you can just stand up for a moment so you can talk to them about the project at the break .
and i brought this project back as an example of how to address this archaic , cognitive model .
the father of this young man was identified as the hanger of the pane of lama .
the whole thing is a game , i have to say .
which , of course , is extremely opposed to the storytelling , and it &apos;s a computer game .
and when i say computer game , you &apos;re very likely to see that any people in front of any console , or that you &apos;re playing with the console in your hand .
anyway , they do it in there .
this is a game for the outside .
and that &apos;s designed to think that i &apos;m exploring the outside world , so i &apos;m rediscovering the real world .
and this game connects the virtual world , which is the data that we produce with the real world .
i apologize that i have to cut so much .
you can explain that in a much better way , there &apos;s a lot more to it .
and it &apos;s about exploring a city by looking at where positive or negative has been tweeted .
that meant that he was killed immediately during the chinese invasion .
and so i get a very different view from the city , a very different impression , which is that i see negative and positive zones of a city , and i get a very different virtual map of a very real city .
and we can look at that now .
ah , what you can see here , sorry , is a little explanation of what you &apos;re about to see .
of course , this virtual world lives in the walls of our cities , is clear .
and with a kind of flashlight , we can make these virtual worlds visible .
so , i &apos;d like to summarize this a little bit in my talk , in the sense that the properties and the skills that we &apos;ve come out of the vocabulary age , and that we &apos;ve gone a little bit blurry about in the machine age that can be reactivated with the so-called cyber age , and that we can , in this way , activate new products not into the future , but actually come back to our roots .
thank you .
yeah , i &apos;m very excited to be with you .
i &apos;ve just been asked if this sack is a speaker bag and will be speaking to me rather than speaking .
he &apos;s not going to do that .
his uncle flew with her holiness into the diaspora that brought people to nepal .
i &apos;m also going to resolve what &apos;s in there .
but so far , i &apos;m going to make it a little bit more curious .
yes , kids are naturally curious , or should be curious , designers too .
i &apos;m a creator of house , so , of course , i &apos;m looking at the subject of curiosity , and how curiosity changes our thinking , and why do we lose curiosity and have to rebound it , and so on .
this is a whole series of things to deal with next to the actual existence as a shape .
when professors get curious , they &apos;re often pushed in this kind of research semester .
and that &apos;s also what i &apos;ve had in half a year .
a research semester on natural user interface design .
now , you &apos;re going to ask yourself , why do all of the gestures begin to engage in such natural , archaic forms of communication , interaction and so on ?
and i &apos;m just holding one of these little devices up , because things are supposed to be more intuitive , more and more natural , user-friendly , and you have to look , what &apos;s actually natural for us humans , what &apos;s user-friendly or intuitive .
his mother was locked in as a punishment for -- to be wealthy for crimes .
and before the background , i &apos;ve been in the field of natural user interface design , so the next generation of human computing in the relationship of the human computer is about how our tools , or how the computer , from the machine , are changing from the sucessive to the digital assistant .
so i started looking at this , when is it natural or intuitive ?
maybe you have to take a look at it again .
why does this happen ?
so if we look at the evolution of our society , in short , we &apos;re moving from the third into the fourth generation of society , or social form .
so from modern to computer society .
every society is shaped by a primary medium .
initially , tribal society through language .
that means that you &apos;ve found yourself by talking a common language , you &apos;ve been able to communicate with each other , moved to the same cave , or in other areas , cities have been formed , or villages , and sort of created tribal society .
but the primary medium was language , something very natural , something very vivid .
he was smuggled into jail at the age of two to hide under her rock , because she couldn &apos;t live without him .
you also had to learn , so no small child can talk about nature , but we learn it sucessively and proportionately .
that was then dissolved by the ancient society and the first form of abstraction .
this was a huge scream at the time , because , of course , you started to manifest the living language in the form of writing , which means what &apos;s fluid and alive , i start and carve it in stone , and i manipulate it as well .
and of course , depending on how i shoot and when i shoot , it &apos;s a very different narrative than if there &apos;s a living kind of coverage .
but sukessive then moved this script as a primary medium , got into it .
then came the next generation that we actually live in today , primarily .
this is the script that &apos;s coined by pressure and print with gutenberg and others .
at the time , it was just like a monkey , where adel , klerus and others said , you &apos;re actually crazy when people start reading , they want to talk afterwards , and that &apos;s , of course , totally fatal .
and now we come to the next generation , and the exciting thing is , a generation shift is just every few hundred years , and we &apos;re really in this phenomenal phase right now , that we &apos;re going to participate in this .
of course , we &apos;re totally confused by this , because we &apos;re seeing on one side the new media , social media , facebook , etc . , etc .
the sister who did this brave act was brought to an education camp .
with total transparency , what the new thinking is , what bangs on the old thinking , don &apos;t say that the lasagne horse meat and the beef is no longer beef or other phenomena , which is , i want to just toss that up and do that .
and these two worlds are just banging together , new and old thinking .
the exciting thing about this is , if you look at this , this new society , this computer society , this computer society , comes out of a lot of mechanisms , principles and archaic paradigm from the tribal society .
now , not anymore at the local level , but at the global level .
we understood that the weather is global .
that the theme of ecology is a global issue .
not if i think locally ecologically here , and the neighbor thinks less ecologically , the whole thing doesn &apos;t work .
that means that local village has actually become a global village with the same principles , of course , possible , intuitive , but also total transparency .
as you knew in the village at the time , who has what happens to whom and when , this is what &apos;s happening today about this expansion of ourselves through these mobile devices at the global level .
whether it &apos;s that we &apos;re accumulating knowledge globally and accumulating faster and faster and better .
and one day , she walked out of sight on a armband of maos , and for that transmission , she had to go into a difficult job camp for seven years .
just as it used to happen in the village .
so , in front of the background , i &apos;ve just been looking at it , because what does it mean to us , what &apos;s natural , what might we have lost , but what &apos;s also instinctive to us , so what &apos;s the difference ?
because people often come , they can &apos;t make it user-friendly , so anybody can deal with it .
so you have to deal with it , which means that , and not just change it , that it &apos;s different , but it &apos;s supposed to be better .
and of course , when is also a little intuitive , and how can i take the shape and make things so that they &apos;re a user-friendly , so they &apos;re intuitive , because then they &apos;re fun and they &apos;re easy to use .
you &apos;re looking at it , even during the study , with the subject of perception and perceptual psychology .
and that &apos;s , of course , where you start and look and say , okay , now i &apos;m just looking inside the self .
and what does it really look like in there ?
so how do we work when we look in there ?
and what does it mean , of course , intuitively , and how do our channels of perception work , and how does cognitive processing work work ?
the suffering of tibetan can be intractable , but the triggering mind of people is something unforgettable .
because steve jobs used to say you need to dig deeper to understand how it works .
so you really have to look in detail , if i want to make something user-friendly or intuitively handable , which means at the core .
and you can see already that you have our seven senses , most people think we only have five , and now it &apos;s seven , certainly in the near future , there &apos;s the next , eighth sense , and as an extension again , our self .
and to see , how do we process information , how do we take information ?
just to say , what is information ?
information is every difference that makes a difference .
a lot of people use the word , but they don &apos;t know what it means , then , detail .
but i have to understand at the core , in nature , when information becomes information , when information becomes information , and information , so that i know how to make things intuitively , or , of course , handable afterwards .
and of course , how design affects perception .
we see this , when i shape things , i can make them confusing , like on the right , where i don &apos;t know what &apos;s salt and pepper , or i can sort of intuitively design them by showing things .
and in the end , we &apos;re really in front of a choice : do we want to live in a monochromatic world of monotonies or in a polychromatic world of diversity ?
so much more natural , in a vessel , but i kind of see directly where is salt and pepper in there .
and when i tell someone , give me salt or pepper , they &apos;ll start thinking about where &apos;s in the right .
and then , on the left , just intuitively access , and then hopefully , no sugar is in there , and that &apos;s what salt is .
but also , our perception of ourselves , like deceiving us .
for example , this perception in context .
the right circle looks bigger than the small one , even though that &apos;s not the case , but they &apos;re just about the same size , and yet our perception changes , depending on what context we put things in .
does anybody know what that is ?
come on .
pattern recognition should still work .
that &apos;s where it &apos;s more like my glasses .
the ethnosphere is the great legacy of humanity .
margaret mead , the great anthropologist , said before she died , that it &apos;s her greatest fear that as we move toward a thread , rootless , generic world view , we would not only see the entire range of human imagination reduced in a tight way of thinking , but that one day we woke up from a dream and forgot that there were other possibilities .
so it &apos;s a circle .
a second circle is starting to correlate or associate certain similarity .
and when i sit there for a halboval , all of a sudden we don &apos;t just see a unit , which is circle , circle and , but we see a unit , we don &apos;t see more three parts , a circle , a circle , a circle , another .
this is called the gestalt law , or the gestalt psychology , which is also affecting us in perception .
it &apos;s important for the shape , which is mostly in the first semester , the great gestalt laws .
the design law of the nearby , the shape of the continuity and so on .
a lot of times in the third , forget about it .
but this is an essential component , if you want to make things very intuitively possible .
the next phenomenon , which is also very interesting , is vision .
sounds very banal , but it &apos;s very exciting when you get closer to it .
and it &apos;s humbling to think that maybe our species has existed for 600,000 years .
so we have the eyes in the front , and now you think we see from the front to the back .
that &apos;s wrong .
you see , first of all , from the back to the front .
because they projy an assumption forward that they see something that they recognize , unprecedented circle .
that is , we &apos;re going to try our vision first before we see it , put it back in the back of our seheaters to say , okay .
i &apos;ve got cognitive feedback , you &apos;ve proved what you want to see .
that &apos;s also there , and that &apos;s coming back .
and then it goes back to the front , because the back doesn &apos;t trust the front , and says , well , really look again , and i &apos;m sure if what you see is also what you want to see .
and then it goes back , and then it &apos;s actually seen .
so a very , very exciting process of how certain things are going on and what kind of millisecond areas of these things are happening .
the neolithic revolution that brought us agriculture , and at this moment , the cult of the seed corn , which replaced the poetry of the shame through the prose of the priesthood and created hierarchy , specialization and overshooting -- just 10,000 years ago .
i don &apos;t know who knows this picture of you .
it &apos;s exactly the same thing that happens to me that i &apos;ve just described .
now , everybody from this pattern is trying to see something .
i don &apos;t know who knows what .
does anybody see anything ?
a dalmatiner , exactly .
once i see this , once i see that there &apos;s a dalmatiner in there , you know .
you &apos;ll never forget it because i &apos;ll show you where the dalmatiner is .
now you see the dalmatiner .
and on , now you &apos;re always seeing him .
the modern industrial world as we know it is hardly 300 years old .
that is , i &apos;ve actually spoiled them now that they don &apos;t recognize any pattern in there anymore , but i &apos;ve conditioned them over and over again to see this dog in this obscure image .
and this is this projection of vision , feedback , vision .
now i know , and now i &apos;m projiecizing forward , that i see the dalmatiner .
i see the dalmatiner .
so , really , really exciting processes that are going to happen in this , yes , gray is not , but it &apos;s actually going on here in this rosane mass .
anyone know what three seconds are ?
long , yeah .
that &apos;s our present .
so , it &apos;s always interesting to know as a designer .
if i know something takes three seconds to sort of get out of the present into the past loop , i can also bridge very well waiting times , where i &apos;m always employing them by somebody with three seconds .
now , this shallow story doesn &apos;t tell me that we have all the answers to the challenges that we face in the coming millennia .
that &apos;s what he has to process as a present .
then it goes into the past , and so i can bridge very elegantly waiting times , for example , on the computer , if i know this phenomenon .
what does fifty milliseconds take ?
yeah , milliseconds .
it &apos;s also a very exciting phenomenon .
this is the time period in which you fall in love .
that means , notice , if you know this now , pay attention to who you &apos;re looking at for how long , because i &apos;m not taking a gun for what can happen .
and sixteen milliseconds , also a very exciting phenomenon .
that &apos;s the time period of most perceptions that we have .
that means that first impression is happening at a rapid speed of how we perceive things .
if we ask these myriad world cultures about the importance of being human , they answer with 10,000 different voices .
and as we see things , as we look at what we &apos;re looking at , and as we sort of defend ourselves against our environment , so that we can think about that in the same way .
of course , the forms are not just about perceptions and neural processing or cognitive sergonomy , but they &apos;re primarily about the subject of human-object relationship .
so how does a human being deal with certain things ?
there &apos;s a product linguistically practical functions , so formal aspects or formalaesthetic aspects .
there are signature functions where i know exactly where to reach .
but there are also symbolic functions , why does anybody spend on such a little bit of a day where there &apos;s very little bit of money in there , so horrendous sum of money , even though it &apos;s not so practical ?
there we are more at the symbolic level , at the meaning level , where we are , of course , concerned with the shape .
back to my actual theme of natural user interface and the subject , which is , of course , behind it , is usability .
usability always means , how can i achieve a certain goal very quickly , or how can a user be able to achieve a target in a certain context of use , efficiently and satisfactory .
so it &apos;s more like the norm .
and in this song , we &apos;re going to rediscover the possibility of being what we are : people with full consciousness , who are aware of the importance that all people and gardens need to be able to thrive a space , and there are great moments of optimism .
how can i make something that can be user-friendly ?
can i use that directly , or i need a manual , or i need some kind of training for it .
and less usable or user-friendly it is .
that i &apos;m just making this different shape and more beautiful doesn &apos;t mean that it &apos;s better handable .
you also have to understand that .
and if you look in part at the software that we just saw , you &apos;ll also understand why ninety-nine percent of our current software is not intuitive or not based on the use of it , including the i-pad in many areas or i-phone , although it &apos;s much more intuitive than classic software .
now , intuitive usability has not been a fundamental economic factor since apple , a fundamental factor of success , if i want to use technology devices to people .
why ?
because in general , through this new kind of usability , the natural user ínterfaces , we &apos;re five times faster on average on our goal .
you have to think of it in a way that if you do something of the classic softrware , it takes five hours and this new kind of natural software only an hour .
here &apos;s a photograph i took at the north end of the baffin islands when i went to the narwhal hunt with inuits , and this man , olaya , told me a wonderful story of his grandfather .
that doesn &apos;t mean that they &apos;re likely to be able to go home for four hours , but their employer , or anyone , will come up with them in the four hours .
but i want to say that , of course , it &apos;s a real increase in performance for us to achieve certain things .
so when we go back to the software area , the first command line interfaces , which were very abstract , where it took months to deal with these systems .
and then the next ones that have been working with the nem neural model or mental model like the software eergonoma , which is that you would have an idea of something , the metaphor , the metaphor of a desktop , to make the computer usable .
so no longer zeros and ones or cryptic codes , but a metaphor .
that made this much more user-friendly , but , of course , it &apos;s much better .
the next generation of graphic user surfaces is working a lot more on behavior .
so , as a shape , i &apos;m much more likely to shape behavior than looking .
that &apos;s also a paradigm shift .
that all of a sudden , it seems to be increasingly unimportant to success , even the usability becomes an application .
the canadian government didn &apos;t always go very well with the inuit , and during the 50th years in the process of establishing our rule , they were forced to move in settlements .
and if i then take it one step further into this natural user interfaces , where by voice , by language , by touch , by gesture , by gesture , and no longer by mouse and cursor , i &apos;m even faster and more immediate .
but that also brings me back to the point where do things actually get more intuitive ?
when you become more intuitive , and then i have to reframe my little friend here and look , what does that mean from the point of view of cognition sergonomy , when is there really something intuitive ?
and that &apos;s always a little intuitive for us humans , if i have to think about it a little bit .
so , apparently , he doesn &apos;t like to think , but he wants to make it very easy .
the less i kind of think about it , the more intuitive it is .
and what does that mean to the designer ?
that means , if we look at the fact that we can transmit existing models from one to another , for example , the metaphor , then i can use that as a shape .
that means i can transmit an intuitive , human action model to software and make the software much more user-friendly .
so , of course , the question is , what is the most intuitive action scheme of us human beings , and now i &apos;ve told you .
the grandfather of this old man refused .
this is the so-called osit-model .
this is what each of us uses , and osit is an acronym , and it stands for guidance , selective , informed , transaction .
that &apos;s what each of you does all the time , but it makes it unconscious and kind of intuitive or partly instinctive .
the model is already jumped out in the womb and is interculturally , so it works in the world at young and old , and it &apos;s used by us all the time , without most of us knowing that this model is there .
osit osit itself is about 50 to seven thousand times of us ever after activity , so in the sleep , you &apos;ve found that it &apos;s less likely to be punished than on the day .
i can now orient this mental model of action , select , inform , transfer , transfer to an interaction system .
and through this kind of transmission , sort of like the metaphor of the desktop , now not anymore a metaphor of a physical object , but a metaphor of an action pattern , an action jump .
and this is on a higher level of user kindness than that of transmission to a classic metaphor , which is the desktop .
and if i transfer that now , for example , in which i orient as a supervision , select as a choice , inform in the case , it comes up to me , i can look at it in detail , and yes , transcribe , i can throw it somewhere or buy somebody and so on .
then i can transmit the whole thing .
it &apos;s the symbol of all of what we are and what we are capable of as an astonishingly wis-eyed species .
the family that was afraid of his life took down all the guns and all the tools .
i &apos;m going to try this through an example .
now , everybody &apos;s eaten a cake .
supervision : now i &apos;m kind of interacting with the object , can zoom out , zoom in .
i &apos;ll get the whole overview , and now i can filter on this and say , just show me all the chocolate thing , for example .
and all of a sudden , you have an interface , which is much more intuitive and much more natural .
because i can grab things like the bits , touch them , and they come up to me , is much more natural than if you can make these things available on hierarchical websites or other mechanisms .
imagination is more important than knowledge , and with that sentence , i &apos;d like to close with giving a and again the clue , designers have to think differently to come up with new solutions , and in that sense , i thank you very much for your attention and please .
i want to give you a very specific aspect of curiosity .
the first one , when you grow up as a child , as a baby , is that you take care of what excerpts you have , right ? and depending on whether your parents allowed you to play more or less in the pottery and move , the more , in a way , your curiosity is obviously woven .
and the curiosity doesn &apos;t learn .
now you have to know that the inuit is not afraid of the cold . they used it to benefit .
that &apos;s why all of you who are here and are curious are actually people who have a property that you can &apos;t learn .
i &apos;m going to talk about , basically , this whole environmental debate , global demise , 40-odd years of club-of-rome , in quality .
and there &apos;s a central point in this .
and it depends on phosphorus .
give pee a chance .
every day , they give plus-sizes down about two grams of phosphorus , and every day they have to take two grams of phosphorus .
otherwise they can &apos;t have teeth .
they can &apos;t store energy .
you can &apos;t have bones .
we could only glide as amorphous mollusks across the world &apos;s ocean .
the tracks of their sled were originally made from fish that were wrapped in caribbean skin .
in fact , if we don &apos;t take phosphorus and give it away .
and the amazing thing is that we &apos;re dealing with something that &apos;s actually self-understanding , but it &apos;s not like that .
because everybody &apos;s talking about energy , but nobody &apos;s talking about the phosphorus problem .
the phosphorus problem is much more critical .
we depend on two countries .
we only have two years of phosphorus , and now , by mining phosphorus around the world , a lot more uranium is put into the environment than is used in all nuclear facilities .
in the last 20 years alone , fifteen thousand tons of uranium has been distributed in our fields in germany .
and we take it all up .
it makes leukemia in children .
and we think we would protect the environment if we &apos;re a little less harmful .
the man &apos;s grandfather was not afraid of the arctic night or the blowing storm .
so , for example , shake the environment , drive less cars .
shake the environment , make less waste .
shake the environment , use less energy .
but that &apos;s not a protection .
this is the way i would say , shake your child , just three times instead of five times .
that &apos;s just a little bit less destruction .
if we think from the weigh to the bathing like this , our entire earth will be sooner or later a cemetery .
that &apos;s why we think about weighing to weigh .
and the most important thing is to look at the ground , first of all .
in the ground , over 60 percent of the carbon is stored .
he hatched out , he left his pants out of sea fur , and he defeated in his hand , and as the feces began to freeze , he shaped them into the form of a knife .
right now , we &apos;re growing corn and losing between 11 and 30 kilograms per hectare , or doing the math of the square meter .
that means we lose about five thousand times more in the ground than we &apos;re reformed .
we can , of course , look at the waste problem first .
and everything is packaging or content .
for example , in openstream , the home waste is 20 percent of the waste in the garbage .
and because we get older , the wind gets bigger .
these are all of them in the pre-wind phase , in a sense .
yes ?
a baby needs about six thousand diapers .
of course , we could reduce that by 10 percent , but what does that do ?
he sprayed stores on the sides of the fecal knife , and when it was frozen completely , he amazed a dog .
this is being balanced in china in a second .
this is completely trivial .
so the question is , how do we deal with these winds ?
here &apos;s one evidence , by the way , that men are not pigs .
let me tell you .
because the phosphorus is given in the pigs over the solid ingredients of excrement .
people are talking about the urine .
yeah .
so men can &apos;t be pigs .
because that &apos;s the evidence , right ?
he contains the dog and improvised a dish , took the skeleton of the dog and improvised a sled , put a different dog on the ice sheets with the fecal knife on the belt .
traditionally , we think in the environmental debate , we &apos;re too many people in the world .
and if you were to tell the people that if you were to give it away , if you were to say , that &apos;s better , you wouldn &apos;t be there , they &apos;re going to be refined and hostile .
and so someone like al gore , one of our great heroes , there &apos;s nothing more important than stabilizing the human population .
in israel , if you save a human life , you save the earth .
here it says , the more you surround , the better .
yeah .
the first question is , are we really too many ?
if you look at the ants , the weight of the ants on earth , the ants weigh about four times more than we humans .
i could also take termites , but in the united states , no one likes termites , even though they &apos;re vegetarians .
that means that ants weigh much more than we do .
this is how you can make something out of nothing .
and because they work much harder physically than we do , and because they live only three to six months , they &apos;re a little bit tricky in their weight , in their energy consumption .
that means we &apos;re not too many , we &apos;re too stupid , right ?
and where you see how far we are from this , what we really wanted to do , and how sad we are , that we are on earth at all , you can see that , for example , there &apos;s an open program , until 20 , you want to be climaneutral here , right ?
you can only be climaneutral if you don &apos;t exist , right ?
the only chance .
have you seen a climate-neutral tree ?
yes ?
one ?
that means all of our intelligence means that we want to be dumber than trees , right ?
yes ?
and this , in many ways , is a symbol of the resistance of the inuit and all indigenous people in the world .
no tree is carbon neutral .
luckily not , yes ?
there &apos;s no overpopulation problem with trees .
there are still six billion trees in the amazon area alone .
have you ever heard of this from overpopulation problems of trees ?
that means all of our intelligence means that we want to be stupid as trees .
and where you see , even in something like demeter , the most strict bio-agriculture , it doesn &apos;t allow our own metabolic products to go back .
every year , we lose three million tons of phosphorus that really would have to go back in circles .
and we &apos;re too many of them .
just about it .
the canadian government gave the inuit back in april 1999 , the complete control over an area bigger than california and texas combined .
that means we feel so guilty about the earth that we say , there &apos;s no bio-land , no bioland , no natural system of progression , and as they all say , that allow our own excrements to go back .
isn &apos;t that sad ?
we &apos;re too many of them .
it makes sense to be less harmful in terms of oil use .
but where are we useful ?
we &apos;re trying to minimize our ecological footprint , but it &apos;s about having a big footprint that &apos;s useful .
we want to be good for society , we want to be good for the economy , but when it comes to the environment , the highest thing is not to be there , right ?
nullemissions , yes ?
you can only have nullemissions if you &apos;re not there .
even if you were to shoot yourself now , you would have emissions .
and just as the biosphere was very defeated , it happened at the ethnosphere -- just at even greater speed .
it &apos;s our new home country , and it &apos;s called nunavut .
so you can &apos;t solve that .
we can do it differently .
we can regain our nutrients .
we make agriculture in brazil from where we regain the nutrients .
directly , we can get the nutrients back in this way in agriculture .
we do this in china , for example , where we take the waste from it directly .
in china , a nachttopf today is still honeybeds , so to speak , right ?
and in our western world , we were always too stupid , bringing our nutrients back .
that means that the whole western civilizational history is about the fact that the city has only always taken , but has never given back to the farmers .
and so the cities had to grow more and more , because the farmers went to the cities , and the cities had to keep moving away from their nutrients .
it &apos;s an independent area . they control all the minerals .
that &apos;s why all the western empires are always expanded , until they haven &apos;t done the infrastructure , and then they &apos;re imploded .
yes ?
in china , it was different .
you &apos;ve made a brutally civilization over five thousand years , because you &apos;ve always been able to bring the nutrients back .
even today , if you &apos;re invited to eat in china , you &apos;re expecting to eat until you &apos;re looking for the toilet .
because it &apos;s unfriendly to go and take the nutrients .
you invited them to eat , not for nutrient theft .
that means you can see on the internet how to reclaim the nutrients .
in fact , the beauty of this is , if you do this , which is agriculture , you create biogas , on a hectare country with five thousand people in favelas , so a farmer can produce about a thousand-thousand-and-a-half dollars , and the plant will wait for chicken and pig and pig and pig and pig and vegetables and fish .
and the great thing about this is that the crime rate in the favelas goes back over nine percent .
an amazing example of how a nation , a state that can seek and achieve revival with its people .
so we don &apos;t have to control people , to be very little bad .
we can support them to be good .
this is , of course , high-tech agriculture , but the facilities carry themselves .
the byproduct is clean water .
and they &apos;re designed like this by the design that a farmer can just control them .
that means returning the crime rates .
and none of these facilities , we &apos;ve now built over 100 in the last 20 years , none of these facilities have ever been sabotted .
you could just throw in a liter of allets so easily , and then the plant would be ruined over years .
it &apos;s not happening .
that means we don &apos;t have to control people , to be very little bad .
and finally , i think it &apos;s pretty obvious , at least for those of us who have traveled to these distant goals of the earth to realize that they &apos;re not at all removed .
we can support them to be good .
that means we need to get phosphorus back .
and by the way , if you want to do anything out of it , write down , in germany , the best way to do it is by all the educational facilities in frfurt .
unfortunately , they &apos;re not in the open , but maybe they can help the fraud a little bit .
because the frared facility could best regain the phosphorus .
and it has to go back .
we see that phosphorus is really critical .
and we see that it &apos;s going to work out .
we &apos;ve been in holland for three years now .
the dutch government has explained that they will be the first country in the world to regain phosphorus .
they &apos;re the countries of home from someone .
but we need it all together .
you know , there are two countries that control almost seventy percent of the world &apos;s phosphorus incidents .
there &apos;s a bunch of orphanages in opec .
that &apos;s six-and-a-half countries that control 40 percent of the oil supplies .
and we &apos;re going to be able to replace the oil with other energy sources .
but you won &apos;t be able to replace the phosphorus .
that &apos;s not about making the existing one a little bit less bad , it &apos;s about making something right .
and most of all , to ask what &apos;s the right thing to do .
that means it &apos;s about efficiency , not about efficiency .
in holland , of course , it &apos;s easier to understand , because in holland , the country is built on flowers .
they represent parts of the human imagination that go back in the past time , and for all of us , the dreams of these kids , like the dreams of our own children , become part of the geography of hope .
yes ?
imagine , for example , if your wife is sad , if you &apos;ve annoyed her , and you come with 50 roses .
completely inefficient .
but really , really effective , right ?
or take a lip pen .
a woman in germany eats about six comma three kilograms in her life .
this is it .
that &apos;s not exactly right , scientifically , because we don &apos;t know how much is being kissed away .
but a lip pen , even in this illumination , i can tell you , is completely inefficient , but really effective , right ?
one thing that &apos;s beautiful in life is not efficient .
what we &apos;re trying to do at national geographic is we think politicians never do anything .
it &apos;s not resource efficiency , it &apos;s efficiency .
asking , what &apos;s the right thing to do ?
not to burn the enlightenment mud a little bit better and deploy it with it and lose all the materials for cycles in the burn plant , but to ask the first question , how do you make circles ?
imagine mozart efficient .
yes ?
if i invite you to dinner and say , yes , there &apos;s a tablet of open taste and a glass of water .
wonderful , &apos; ne ?
that &apos;s efficient .
everything that &apos;s beautiful in life is not efficient .
if you fall in love with somebody , efficiently ?
we believe that polemics -- we believe that polemics is not persuasive , but we believe that storytelling can change the world , and so we &apos;re probably the best institution for storytelling in the world . our website gets 35 million hits a month .
yes ?
that is , everything that counts in life is not about saving , avoiding , reducing .
the whole environmental debate .
we tell people , oh yeah , you don &apos;t have an environmental awareness in the south .
no , throwing away is exactly the right thing , right ?
in every place where you throw away , from , yes , you create life opportunities .
but the wrong things .
if you throw away the wrong things , you have a waste problem .
we think from the north .
there &apos;s every footprint disadvantaged .
156 nations send our tv channel .
if you walk , yes , every footprint destroys the ground .
because the soil is going to die off , and the wind and the water is going to wash away .
but if you &apos;re in italy , every footprint means that the water is longer in the meadow .
so , it &apos;s about creating a big footprint that becomes a wetlands .
not guilt management .
we say sustainability in germany .
yes ?
but if i ask you , how do you do with your wife ?
so what do you say ?
sustainable .
our magazines are read by millions .
then i say , heart-to-heart pity , right ?
that &apos;s the minimum .
so not saving , avoiding , avoiding .
every waste is nutrient .
and it &apos;s a lust , if you look in italy , as people in the high bow throw out coke can from the car , to that .
because , you know , that &apos;s a fun process .
it &apos;s a form of refour behavior , right ?
you can show , i was there .
but with the right design , there we go .
for example , we &apos;ve developed an ice cream package , which is liquid at room temperature .
no biologist would , for example , claim that 50 percent or more are just about to extinct , because it &apos;s just not true . and yet , this -- the most apocalyptic scenario in the field of biological diversity -- is hardly anything that &apos;s known as the most optimistic scenario in the field of cultural diversity .
and we do a series of trips into the ethnosphere , where we take our audience to places of such cultural wonders , that they can be blinded by the blessed , and hopefully , one by one , embrace the central revelation of anthropology : that this world has deserved to exist in a variety of ways that we can find a possibility of life in a truly multicultural pluralistic world where the wisdom of all people can contribute to our common well-being .
they can throw them away where they go and stand .
in two hours , it &apos;s degrading everywhere .
and it contains seeds of rare plants so that by throwing away , they contribute to biodiversity .
that means we &apos;re useful , not less harmful at it .
so there are two cycles .
it &apos;s not all supposed to be compostable , of course .
a television or a washing machine , they just use it , they don &apos;t use it .
just the things that are veiling , like shoes , like brakes , like cars , they have to be so that they go into biological systems .
the things that are just being used go into technical systems .
but today we &apos;re just talking about the biological systems .
thank you .
yes ?
for example , the sneaker , right ?
very direct advertising , not for the company puma per se , but for you to help this company make these products successful .
because we don &apos;t make things more free .
yes ?
so , when i invite you to eat and say , this is free of chicken , it doesn &apos;t help you .
no , we see what &apos;s in there .
positive .
so it &apos;s not like detox .
not toxic in it .
what i &apos;m going to show you , first of all , as quickly as possible , is the basic work , a new technology that we &apos;ve given microsoft as part of an exception just a year ago , which is seadragon , and it &apos;s an environment where you can either go local or distant with huge amounts of visual data .
it &apos;s all that &apos;s in there that &apos;s useful .
these are the first shoes that you can put the cavalry launch on the pedestrian light , and the rubber can go into biological cycles , right ?
all of it is compostable .
and of course , if we can do it , we can do it for adidas , for nike , for hennes and mauritz and all the textile industry .
and that &apos;s half the world &apos;s sewage problems that are caused by the textile industry .
that &apos;s why you &apos;re helping with this , ask people .
hey , puma , are you really serious ?
because they &apos;ve changed the chairman twice .
and i &apos;m not so sure they &apos;re really staying there .
so , help me with this a little bit .
we see lots and lots of gigabytes of digital photos here , which you can keep getting seamlessly and continuously , switching , rearranging in any way .
but it does .
yeah .
what &apos;s just been shown .
that &apos;s what &apos;s going on .
we can do things now so that if they veile , if they break , they can go into biological cycles .
technical cycles are the same .
there &apos;s a direct back name system for this .
this is the first ecological backpack , actually , that &apos;s made to go back into the cycle .
again , in any store , you can get things back .
if you come to that , yes ?
and it doesn &apos;t matter how much information we &apos;re looking at , how big these collections are , or how big the images are .
do you remember the windle again ?
if at the moment , the waste is there .
all over the place , these wind are around , almost .
in the countries where people come to money .
there it is in front of the deponies , but also in the landscape , right ?
if we change the plastics , so that it can go into biological systems , if we change the water stores , inside that you can go back to cellulosic base , then you can plant a baby in israel , or in tunisia , hundreds of fifty trees .
yes ?
even if you take these winds , you shrink them , you sterilize them and you take the powder to plant trees .
so the baby is carbon positive for the whole life , from the beginning .
so we don &apos;t need to be climate-neutral ; we can be climate .
most of you are digital photos of a camera , but this is , for example , a scan of the library of congress , and it &apos;s in a field of 300 megapixels .
it &apos;s kind of a behavioral poop print .
yeah , so to speak .
yes ?
we can do that .
we can reinvent everything again .
i started an institute on this .
there are a lot of people who are working there , and they can all engage .
there &apos;s an extra commitment to that , cradle to cradle , where everyone can participate .
so not saving , avoiding , reducing , not debt management , but intelligent waste .
does that make you curious ?
it doesn &apos;t make any difference , because the only thing that can limit the power of a system like this is the number of pixels on your screen at any moment . it also has a very flexible architecture .
thank you .
the work of interpreting .
music as a language .
in the description of my talk , it says that as an interpreter , i &apos;m a translator , so in the english word , i understand .
interprets are translators of written notes into clinical music .
that , as a translator , not only do you have to transmit the text into a different language , but you also have to understand the deeper sense of words and wortzusame bias , so that there is a meaningful translation , everyone who has to do with foreign languages .
already translation from germans to english can require more knowledge , given that if you &apos;re about poetry , or even about poetry .
but it &apos;s very alien to layman , what we musicians do with our music language .
as an interpreter of a piece of music , i first have the written notes .
you think that the composer has written in the notes exactly everything he imagined .
this is a whole book , an example of non-image data .
in fact , the notes are very vague and inaccurate .
these notes are about as accurate or inaccurate as a verbal , although very seemingly penile , description of a landscape .
because in this verbal landscape description , the smell of flowers is not to smell , the degree of green is to remember not to hear the saw of the wind .
that is , the interpreter has to translate that unprecedented attack of the emergency language into another , which is audible , concrete , non-verbal music language .
today , i &apos;d like to translate to what i otherwise use musically , which is to interpret , again , into a verbal language .
so basically , a translation of translation .
so i prefer to do this in german , because if i had to translate it into english again , it would be equally significant to me to translate the translation of the translation .
so the music , for me , works as much as the spoken language .
the notated notes have the function of the letters of a script .
so it &apos;s not enough to learn to read just notes and to press the keys on the piano or the right place on a violin string .
this is bleak house of dickens . every column is a chapter .
because these are just the letters that you learned to paint .
the sense of letters is that it &apos;s only when you can see the language .
so for the learning process of music , you need music language at least as long as it is for spoken language .
now , there &apos;s also a degree , whether you &apos;re learning it for use , you &apos;re just passively understanding it , or you can also talk actively , to the musical mother &apos;s language .
the work of interpreting starts kind of like a theater director .
after you first chose a piece to play , because you &apos;re excited about it , you first research on the emergence of the composition .
you collect information about the piece in the secondary literature .
you read in the letters , journals , notes , or whether there are words , thoughts of the composer .
you study the work that he composed before and after .
you &apos;re doing comparison .
to prove that it &apos;s really a text and not a picture , we can do something like this to really show that this is a real representation of the text and not a picture .
the reasons to write it .
how and what did he feel ?
what were his circumstances , like society and politics ?
that &apos;s all i &apos;m interested in .
you think in that time , by looking at contemporary images , for example , or reading literature .
but over time , you also have an interpret of a rich knowledge about the composer you play more often , and it &apos;s easier for you to think in and feel in it .
the composer becomes more and more the friend that you live with .
his cause to write the piece becomes more and more of my personal cause to play it .
now that the notes are anything but an accurate record of the cause of the composer , but only a framework , i now turn that framework to replenish it with meaning and meaning .
i then say , in my own words , what could be written between this framework .
and the key indicator for that is the extinction of languages .
maybe this is an artificial way of reading an e-book .
i play explaining what these sounds might have to mean .
now for me and for the composer at the time , and what you might mean for him today .
every tone , every phrase , gets a sense of it , because i feel it myself , because it comes out of my own right now .
it has to be coherent to me in this room and now , otherwise i can &apos;t convince my audience that this is my cause .
it &apos;s a very happy concert over and over again , if i can have the experience , the piece that i &apos;ve been working in advance for so long as i &apos;ve been re-imagining .
how to reexperience a happy new day , although always with the same rituals of life , stand up , breakfast , go to work , i do the same thing over and over again .
again , i got older a day , changing seasons , my pulse goes slower at night than in the morning , in a concert room , it takes longer for the sound to come back than at home .
i &apos;m perceiving the breathing of the audience , consciously or unconsciously .
all of this affects me and all of this also affects my experience with composition .
and what &apos;s wonderful is , when i &apos;m standing on the stage with a duo partner , and we have the same wavelength .
i wouldn &apos;t recommend it .
then the same thing happens in a good , appropriate conversation .
you bring a new idea in , and in the same way , it &apos;s answered with a reaction .
it &apos;s exciting , because then things that we haven &apos;t tried so much and you can &apos;t sample .
it &apos;s great fun to make music in this way , and you as the audience have then experienced the way music communicates alive .
so every concert is a different concert .
i &apos;m never going to play the same way i do at that moment .
i can &apos;t play today as in 20 years .
and i &apos;m going to have more life experience than i am today , and therefore i &apos;m going to have a lot more color nuances , emotions and emotions than i am today .
i &apos;m sure i &apos;m going to throw out some pots of paint , but get some new ones .
have a nice concrete example of this .
this is a more realistic case . this is a copy of the guardian .
it was on a piano cursor for music students in my beloved old teacher , professor jürgen ude , a famous beethoven specialist , concert pianist and long-term professor of music college here in stuttgart .
unfortunately , i was a lot too young so that he had been emerged when i finally started studying .
but i was very fortunate to meet him very early , at age three , and so i was already on his classes at my school .
i was seventh when i went back to one of his classes and played the last of the four ballads of chopin , a late work .
he asked me what the introduction of this ballad was for me .
this is such a tragic part .
and in my youth , i said , expectation .
and he was crushing , and he was like , you know ?
that has to be the difference in aging .
because to me , it means remembering .
every big picture is the beginning of a section .
he was already over sixties .
well , with seventh , you have dreams , but no significant memories .
i &apos;m playing the piece every few years today , and it &apos;s always changed for me , even though not a single note has changed .
every time it &apos;s exciting , because i keep reading something new .
one example of this from a very different area , monet painted the seerosis x times .
it &apos;s always the same garden , but at different times of day , in different light .
he translated the seerosis in a different way , as he saw it , as they did at that moment .
his personal impressions of seerosis .
the x-time interpretation of a piece is like this .
now i &apos;m also older than chopin , two-and-a-half years old , when he wrote the piece .
and that really gives you the pleasure and the good experience of reading a real paper copy of a magazine or a newspaper , which is a kind of a medium of several orders of magnitude .
he lived only ninety-nine years .
and it &apos;s important to me to keep looking at the notes , even though i mean to be able to memorize them .
to keep twin , right with the composer .
because the notes are the only connection directly to him .
most of all , when he died .
now , how do you start talking about the language of music ?
i said yes , it takes about the same length as the spoken language .
a lot of the time , the music class is that you learn to read the notes .
you &apos;re basically learning to read first before you &apos;re just talking one word .
you learn to find the sounds of the notes on the instrument .
we also did something on the corner of this particular copy of the guardian .
if all of the fingers are moving in time and right the way they &apos;re moving in the notes , sounds come out together that sound like music .
when the error happens , the student gets the next hard piece .
now , interpretation is hardly spoken in the beginning class .
all right , there &apos;s presto on the front , which is a quick piece .
lento , slowly .
loud and senior signs , f and b , etc .
that &apos;s what most of you know .
but even if you implement these attacks , it still remains a little bit technical .
and still , it &apos;s not an interpretation .
i wonder .
we &apos;ve designed a false ad with very high resolution , which is much higher than a normal ad , and we &apos;ve added additional content .
i wonder that you often forget something very fundamental .
that , to make music on the instrument , your own musical doing and feeling should be there before .
that is singing .
a child who didn &apos;t learn singing because the parents didn &apos;t pretend to do it themselves .
that &apos;s like learning speech .
it &apos;s necessary to have your own experience and idea of music , and then to have it through another possibility , through an instrument , to sound .
people who never did , after all , have never felt immediately with their own body what it &apos;s like to form a sound .
designing a phrase with his own breath .
the music instrument is actually the extension of our bodies .
our vocal chords to sing , our hands and feet to dance .
if you want to see the functions of this car , you can see it here .
so the hammer heads in the piano are the sequel of my finger .
the melody comes from the healthy and the rhythm of the dance .
the constant coverage today with music is not promoting .
you don &apos;t need to make music yourself if you &apos;re bored .
no more need to whistle or sing a song .
every one of your own music is made up when you &apos;re constantly accumulated with music .
sure , there are some of you who say , yes , but what do you do if i can &apos;t sing ?
the question i ask , can &apos;t you sing , a , because you think you can &apos;t sing ?
or b , because they didn &apos;t learn to sing ?
it &apos;s not too late in both of them to figure out if they can &apos;t , or learn how to use these little muscles that hire the vocal chords .
or other models , or even technical specifications .
because you can train that .
or c , because they &apos;re complained that they &apos;re undeaf .
and then i ask , how skilled was this diagnosis ?
have you got a second or third opinion , as they say , well today ?
or d , you don &apos;t like music , so you don &apos;t want to have to do with it .
but what i would regret , because music is a beautiful , communicative thing .
but maybe you can also reconcile them .
well , you can see , in all cases , no one has to be a reckless candidate .
but don &apos;t say , please , i don &apos;t understand anything about classical music .
i can &apos;t tell if it &apos;s good or bad .
and this really captures these ideas to eliminate these constraints for the space available on the screen .
and i say , but i &apos;m sure you can tell if you like it or not .
because i don &apos;t think somebody says , i don &apos;t know if i like it , because i can &apos;t cook .
so , they don &apos;t get rid of food , just because they can &apos;t cook .
so you don &apos;t have to rely on classical music , because you don &apos;t play an instrument .
listen consciously and tell you whether it tastes you or not .
whether or not the music is too sweet to you .
say what you &apos;re feeling .
over time , they also get claims , and they want to have a little more spices there , or taste , even fine differences .
now , why do i demand from my audience that it &apos;s also actively listening ?
because the music is a language and a language is there to communicate .
when each of you was born in this room , 6,000 languages were spoken on earth .
we hope that this will not mean pop-ups and other nonsense -- that should not be necessary .
a piece of art that you never look at has no force to work .
the food that was cooked by a chef or a chef , needs to be eaten and not just looked at or exchange recipes .
so please listen when a music is played .
it &apos;s not just a nice soundscape .
if in an environment where the adults are actively making music , or at least listening to active music , a child is growing up , it &apos;s very easy for a music teacher to ask , what color does your flower have ?
can you play them in blue now ?
and the child plays , after a memorial break , instead of a red flower , a blue flower .
and this sounds very different from before .
so that was the very first beginning of a self-musical expression .
so the first step to an interpretation .
of course , the mapping is one of the really obvious applications for a technology like this .
and what happens when you play a piece today that was originally written a hundred , two hundred , three hundred years ago ?
meanwhile , the instruments have been evolving .
there was no piano at all right now as an instrument .
it was just not invented .
i think the stream would have been thrilled if he had the sound of the modern piano today .
i can make the sound notions that the stream has had on the modern wing , which a baroque cembalo can &apos;t do .
you also know from beethoven that he heard more than he had become deaf .
today , a modern orchestra is able to play everything an orchestra has rejected from the time as an unplay .
that &apos;s why the composers depend on us interprets that reinvent the pieces .
so you can hear what you &apos;ve only imagined in the mind .
and i really don &apos;t want to spend a lot of time here , except to say that we &apos;re also going to contribute to this area .
and also , what you would think today in the mind .
or what i &apos;m imagining today , because what you might have thought .
thank you .
you know what &apos;s envy ?
have you ever been jealous ?
and how did that feel ?
shredded .
i have a friend who drives a passerati .
so when i come , with my little v w piesel and i get it wrong , that feeling comes up .
i &apos;m shooting a little bit through my head .
but these are all the streets in the united states .
i say , ulf , what do you need to do that big car ?
this is already losing half his value in the first year .
and at all , you &apos;re working much less than me .
why do i have to afford a little car like this ?
and then i come to mind immediately , which is unfair .
it &apos;s against justice .
and as i say the word justice , that unpleasant feeling is gone .
our organism has invented a great way to make such uncomfortable feelings as envy simply to disappear .
you can also try that in words like revenge or for-profit or something .
i want to explain to you , with this mechanism , something that you &apos;re unconsciously familiar with .
overwhelmed at the top of nasa &apos;s penetrating picture .
the mechanism comes from the lie .
but don &apos;t think of the lie that you may have heard when people say no one has the intention of building a wall .
and then stones turn up so that he &apos;s going to give you the view .
on a lie like this , you see that the liar itself doesn &apos;t believe what he says .
it &apos;s very easy to check that it &apos;s very different in mind .
he just deceives you and not himself .
no , the lie that i &apos;m talking about has to do with fooling yourself .
you need this lie to sustain a life lie to sustain a self-deception .
they can make them less easy , yes , examine , or even fall down .
they need time .
now let &apos;s get something else out .
from that time , an anecdote talks that you may know .
the spanish painter pablo picasso once portrayed a woman .
this woman then complained that the portrait wouldn &apos;t look like her .
picasso replies , just wait .
they &apos;re getting more and more similar .
at this point , if you laugh , you realize how important this lie is and how much time you need to experience something that artists can share very well with us .
because artists have a disruptive relationship to lying .
the artist gives you something , and most of all , this lady , which she doesn &apos;t see when she just looks in the mirror .
the artist is sharing with you in such a portrait something that you &apos;re going to be familiar with when you look at this piece of art over and over again .
and then that unpleasant feeling disappears , because you can &apos;t see it similar to you , and you &apos;re getting more and more similar .
this is actually live on the internet now . you can check it out .
here you have this mechanism where we can use the lie as a great invention to stabilize our lifestyle .
and not only in art , but in folk , in mythology , in stories , it appears again .
you may know this idea of the lady who looked in the mirror every morning and asked him , who &apos;s the most beautiful thing in the entire country ?
one day , this mirror says , yes , there &apos;s a more beautiful one .
behind the seven mountains and so on .
and you also know how much hostility from that real origin , even the mirror can &apos;t lie , jumps out of that real origin .
but we should just be familiar with the fact that you can &apos;t tell a woman that there &apos;s a more beautiful somewhere else .
here &apos;s what we need to do with politically correctness , which is to bring over and over again .
we need this lie at this point that keeps us deception , without which we can &apos;t live .
we have not only in art , but in folk poetry , but also in science , such great lies .
this is a project called photosynth that really connects two different technologies .
and there &apos;s this story of the woman of the bischof of worchester .
she heard about this book by charles darwin , the origin of species and the descent of man .
that the man should come from the monkey , and , yes , there would be a common ancestor between humans and monkeys .
and then she ran up to her husband and said , &quot; that &apos;s probably not true what charles is writing . &quot;
the human being is supposed to come from the monkey or have a common ancestor .
no , no , it can &apos;t .
and if it &apos;s true , we have to prevent people from getting knowledge of it .
why do we need to prevent people from getting knowledge from something when it &apos;s true ?
because without that livelihood , we can &apos;t live .
because we have this self-deception , this sense of being great , descent of the highest beings , not of such a no-brainer , of something as unpredictable as an organism that still exists , comparable to a rock , and other things , that &apos;s unsustainable to us .
one is seadragon , and the other is a very good research on computer vision , which is by noah snave , a university student in washington , under the counseling of steve seitz at uv .
so , we can &apos;t do these things at all .
we need to prevent people from knowing things , especially when they &apos;re true .
so you can see how slowly this mechanism is going to resolve , and what the traces that it leaves , that are going to lead to something other than this great picture of ourselves , i want to give you another story .
a particularly beautiful story , i mean .
my wife told me .
she came one day from school , she &apos;s a teacher , and she told me about a student .
an autistic student .
she particularly likes him , because he has a tendency for sincerity .
and she asked him , what are your hobbies ?
and he says , well , i &apos;m at the fire department .
and rick szeliski was done by microsoft research , a very good collaboration .
and because i &apos;m in the fire department , i &apos;m interested in pyrotechnical things .
yes , you feel it when you &apos;re healer at this point . there &apos;s something wrong .
i told my wife , whenever a human being in a moral justification is using the literal , we should try to replace it through the literal , though .
once you do that , and then you learn the sentence .
although i &apos;m in the fire department , i &apos;m interested in pyrotechnical things .
you feel that &apos;s the real truth behind the origin .
this is a little bub that &apos;s not interested in fireflies .
they &apos;re interested in fire .
but there &apos;s no clubs that we can look around for , where you learn how to make fire .
there &apos;s only the second best , the fire department .
now a language is not just the total of the vocabulary or a series of grammar loans .
so this is live on the internet . it &apos;s driven by seadragon .
there he signed up .
and over this , you don &apos;t say to your teacher that you like to put fires somewhere and be happy when the fire comes up afterwards .
no , it just looks a lot better when we show that we &apos;re in charge of eliminating the dangers that others can &apos;t do when they lay fire .
here you have this little mechanism .
this evidence that in the inside of the bub , he knew that he was actually related to the fire , but that he can &apos;t say that out loud .
here you have this censor between the unconscious and the conscious that jumps right away without you being able to do something about it , and the things that you know look very different , designed to sound much better for you and others .
and so you just get these words that we use over and over again in the language of the politically correct speech .
we actually know that something else is the case .
but we know , when we talk about that , the social relations are very sensitive .
we can &apos;t just do that .
you can see that when we create these kinds of views where we can go through images and have this experience of multi-resolution .
it &apos;s impossible to present things like this in a society that &apos;s supposed to work .
so i want to show you what we found in my institute .
what logic this deception , this self-deception , the willingness , a different reality than the one that we actually know in the unconscious sense that it &apos;s valid to spread outward .
so here i want to give you two , maybe three examples .
the first example requires what many of you know and some of you estimate , very few of you don &apos;t need at all .
i mean the soul .
what is the soul ?
the soul is something like this , says something like leibniz .
it &apos;s something that &apos;s not staggered by material , material nature .
and if you have people who are convinced that they have a soul , or you can also say , who believe that they &apos;ve been brought from the soul to life , then they think of it as if the soul is such a spiritual framework about them , not from matter , they themselves just from meat and blood , something more stone , to the earth that is devoid , inherent , unimportant , insignificant , yes dead .
but the spatial order of images is actually important here .
and now , from this soul , you think that you &apos;re kind of present in this cloudy nature , in this funny nature , anima , it &apos;s called in latin , the air cake is present .
and if that air cap then poisons over humans , it &apos;s filled with dignity , with spirit , with nature that can only live , with soul .
and then he can walk away .
that &apos;s the idea of what the soul looks like .
so it &apos;s supposed to come from the outside to the human .
so we &apos;re supposed to think of them as something that is necessarily present to our lives .
and if you have this premise in front of you , you understand the logic that we experience this happiness , through a lie , can improve our world .
because now you can apply a three-sentence .
three sentences you know from school .
this is now a three-sentence that describes a logic .
the computer vision algorithms have been holding these images together so that they can see the real space in which these images that were all taken near the grassi lakes in the canadian rockies . you can see here elements of stabilized slides or panoramic imaging , and these things were all related in space .
this is , by the way , the hardest part of my talk .
here you need some logic , but also the willingness to lie .
that is to lie so that you can just apply this logic wrong .
in this three-sentence , three sentences come in .
the first sentence is , klaus says , there &apos;s no soul .
so the second sentence is , if sound is right , it doesn &apos;t have a soul .
now there &apos;s a third sentence .
i highlighted it here in particular .
a third sentence that immediately appears in people who have a strong sense of a soul .
they say who doesn &apos;t have a soul , he &apos;s dead , and he can &apos;t say anything .
i don &apos;t know if i have time to show you other environments .
and here you feel it .
this logic comes out in this , yes , in this deceptive talk .
you see it immediately .
the first two sentences , they &apos;re logically correct .
because i can say everything .
the logic doesn &apos;t make a point about reality .
i can say the cancellor is a man .
and if i &apos;m right , the chancer is a man .
if i &apos;m not right , the chancer is not a man .
the logic doesn &apos;t make a point about what &apos;s true .
there are those that are much more spatial .
i can say anything .
but the key thing is , if i &apos;m right , it &apos;s true .
so when sound says , there &apos;s no soul .
secondly , if he &apos;s right , he doesn &apos;t have a soul .
these things are logically correct .
and now our deceptive consciousness immediately feels , you can make something out of it .
it depends on a third sentence that has nothing to do with the first two sentences and pretend that the opposite of the first sentence is already proven and assumed .
because , in fact , we would have to prove whether or not there &apos;s the soul .
but with this logic that just uses it , two sentences are logically correct , and a third one that looks like he has something to do with it , so we can save our livelihoods .
so , we pretend that it &apos;s actually impossible without being able to live a soul .
i &apos;d like to show you just one of the original data sets of noah , and this is from an early prototype of photosynth that we &apos;ve been working on for the first time in the summer to show you what i think is really the punch behind this technology , which is photosynthetic technology , and this is not necessarily so obvious when you look at the environments that we have on the website .
and we &apos;re very happy about this .
we can continue these things in different examples .
so in the present , for example , we have a very modern example that keeps filling the daytime .
this is another philosophical theme , a permanent burner from philosophy , you have to be present .
that has to do with us going back to the fourteen century .
there was a scholar called johannes buridanus , and after that , the burian esel is named .
the burian esel is an esel made of pure nature .
he doesn &apos;t have that soul .
this is such a natural thing .
and if you place the exact same in the middle between two identical harbor , it &apos;s starving .
we had to worry about the lawyers and so on .
because he doesn &apos;t know which haystack to go to first .
so it &apos;s right in the middle .
this is how the natural things are presented .
the same large forces with opposite currency dissolve each other .
there &apos;s nothing happening at all .
it &apos;s only if you take another example , so if it immediately makes the one haystack bigger , it doesn &apos;t need any reason , and nothing about it .
automatically , he &apos;s walking to the right idea .
so if you have this idea that you &apos;re sort of driven by nature , determined by the larger pile that immediately attracts you , then you also quickly feel that there must be something like a free will .
and if we &apos;re already here in frankfurt at the main , i remember the max planck institute for brain research .
there &apos;s a scholar called wolf singer , and it &apos;s sometimes said , wolf singer says there &apos;s no willingness .
this is a reconstruction of the cathedame notre dame , who was purely in the computer with images of flickr . just give in notre dame in flickr , and you &apos;ll get pictures of men in t-shirts and on the university camps and so on . each of these orange kegel represents a picture that was discovered as this model .
now , again , we can form the second sentence , and we can say , if wolf singer is right , he has no willingness .
these sentences are absolutely logical and correct .
and what we can read almost every day in the daily newspaper is what you find in this third sentence .
it looks something like who has no freedom of will can &apos;t be held accountable for its actions and claims , and therefore it &apos;s inadequate .
again , you have it again .
in fact , first of all , you &apos;d have to prove whether there &apos;s something like freedom of will .
but the logic of deception allows us to pretend that the first sentence of the beginning is wrong , as if you had to , of course , take the opposite without evidence .
and now you can just , if you want to do anything yourself , if you want to test anything yourself , and most of all , if you want to make people happy , practice that courage to lie .
for example , practice that when you meet a person you can tell , there &apos;s no prediction .
and please don &apos;t use the german word for prediction , which is prophet .
so these are all flickr images , and they &apos;re all spatially related to each other .
you can &apos;t call that , that would be a little bit politically correct .
say , there &apos;s no prediction .
immediately , they &apos;re going to experience one that , of course , is such a prediction , and you can &apos;t prove that .
and they already have a problem .
because while they &apos;re busy making it clear that they can &apos;t prove that there &apos;s no prediction , the man is very happy .
he &apos;s very happy about it because he deceived it .
because he put them on a fiber that he doesn &apos;t hold himself on .
because , in fact , this person is not interested in evidence .
he &apos;s just interested in keeping himself free from the need to prove that there are predictors .
so , in the way of shifting the evidence burden , you &apos;re experiencing the brilliance of the lie .
a language is expression of the human mind .
and we can navigate in this very simple way .
and once again , if you have such an opportunity to feel that three-sentence in other people , you do , because you will make others happy if you don &apos;t remember them that way .
thank you for your attention .
yeah , good afternoon .
i allowed myself to ask lilly if i could mention them .
she &apos;s one of the organizers here from this great event , and she asked me if i wanted to give a talk here and give me my idea .
i have to say , you got it , you got it hard to talk about my idea at the beginning .
and i might want to introduce my island project to you that i &apos;m trying to imagine .
but of course , it &apos;s the sum , lots of ideas .
i probably belong , the two nice girls are still there , i &apos;m probably part of the generation who &apos;s got this bad auko image , because i &apos;ve started studying ninety-nine hundred years old , studying machine construction in carlsruh , technical high school , which is , i think , kit .
and then it hit me in the middle of the &apos; 80s , after berlin , because i wanted to make renewable energy , and it didn &apos;t leave me alone .
you know , i never thought i was going to end up working at microsoft .
there was the core research facility called leopoldshafen .
they were all kfa , even the jewish one , called kfa .
they &apos;re now called project carriers .
because a good engineer has either built great cars or nuclear power plants .
but a doofes like &quot; n solar pendulum , &quot; which kind of comes out of a hundred watts from the square meter , which was a toy .
and in berlin , there was a crazy engineering collection .
i &apos;m grateful to the premium cola man that he rehabilitated the word again , because after the wall fell , you couldn &apos;t use the word anymore , because everything on the left was bad .
however , it wasn &apos;t like that in the &apos; 80s .
there was the fact that there was self-managed alternative operations , and one of them was sitting in cross hill in the majority yard , where you thought the evil was .
it was a place of terrorism , but it was called the fur tronk , and it made wind and solar energy , and i started in the mid-80s .
i &apos;m very grateful for the reception here .
and yes , a lot of what &apos;s been said today is very touching me , because many , many beautiful expressions were in the process that i &apos;ve lived through .
i worked in the collective for 11 years , which was grassroots democratic .
we were 20 people .
when one didn &apos;t say no , the vetoprinzip was completely crushed . i &apos;ve been doubting for 10 years to see if i might really waste my great engineering study , because all my father &apos;s colleagues have always talked to him , you &apos;ve thrown the money out to the window in your child .
it &apos;s about insanity .
and that was really , really bitter , and then you come into this kind of phase , and that was a picture where i was asking myself , after 10 years , a thousand d marrow , which was , at the time , basic , uncertainty in the collective , of course , whether that was really the great thing .
and i &apos;ve been doing it up to six and a half , and then we &apos;ve become a co-founder of friends of the company solon , which became one of the largest cell manufacturers in the world with the spin-off q-cells .
a huge story , but there , of course , we have the problem of a growing company , and then we have two thousand , a small group , decided that we &apos;re going to start small again and go back and dedicate ourselves to the next topic of the future , and that , to me , is to say , it &apos;s kind of crazy again , and that &apos;s going to start with people saying , what &apos;s the nonsense , it &apos;s all not going to be , we &apos;re talking about storage .
and i brought you a project that i want to introduce you to .
and the title of the talk was , yes , a hundred percent renewable .
i guess you can see that these are a lot of different types of cameras : everything is from the cell phone camera to the professional slrs , a pretty large number of them that have all been put together in this environment .
and we &apos;ve just begun to ask a relatively simple story , where could you use a memory in a sense today ?
on this island , this is the island of graciosa on the azores .
yeah , that &apos;s the data .
there are four and a half thousand people .
they have a fifteen percent renewables today .
and the question is , why don &apos;t you have more ?
it just doesn &apos;t work technologically .
when you build more wind power together , the system starts to fail .
that &apos;s what i always tell the politicians when they occupy our plant in berlin adlershof .
they always say , why ?
and if possible , i &apos;ll find some of the strange ones .
we already have 20 percent in germany .
can &apos;t be a problem .
but it &apos;s not true , we have seven percent in europe , and our web is physically the european .
if we had 20 percent in europe , we would have the same problems that people on this island have .
the question was simple , calculate that was two-thousand-2006 , and the first contacts with the island started , and it just did the math .
how big a battery would have to be , in fact , so you can get an island like this on 20 , 30 , 40 , 50 , maybe even seventh percent renewable .
and yes , i &apos;m going to go one more slide .
the conventional system looks like this all over the world .
by the way , about a hundred gigawatts of electrical power are built on the same basis in the world .
that &apos;s the performance of a hundred nuclear power plants , because it &apos;s very quick everywhere .
many of them are covered by faces and so forth .
the energy hunger of the world that &apos;s happening is wiped out with this , because you don &apos;t need permission .
this is fast .
you put a box like this .
and then it usually looks like this .
in the course of three of these , they &apos;re always waiting , two of them are always waiting .
yes , this is what one sees at the bottom is the load .
we also got very accurate data .
and the wind power system , or the solar system , or whatever it is , is usually a back-up system , or a system that can only be stored in small amounts here .
our goal was to say , okay .
this is going to be back-up , and the wind , and the sun is going to serve the load so that you can map the larger proportion .
there &apos;s a series of photographs somewhere here -- here they are .
and if you want to go over 20 , 30 percent renewables per year , so energy per year , not the performance right now , you have to turn off this one .
that is , at the moment , you have to make sure that renewables can take over the whole grid , if you will .
you can only do that , of course , if you &apos;re managed here in any way .
no one in the world has done that .
that &apos;s in a small way , so you can also use your razor in the car over a little change judge .
people always ask me , what are you doing in adlershof ?
that &apos;s already going on .
but if you want to put together several of these conversations , and they &apos;re supposed to build a net , it &apos;s going to be extremely complicated .
and our goal was , we wanted to get to seventh to ninety-nine percent renewable , and then there &apos;s this rest , the last 10 , 20 percent renewable , and that &apos;s going to be very , very expensive , and that &apos;s not going to work , you &apos;re going to make that out of batteries .
that &apos;s going to be an energy carrier , which then , hydrogen , methane , power to gas , you know , or shit , it &apos;s going to be .
this is actually a poster by notre dame , who was recorded properly .
you have to go to a season memory , and winter summer , and not just tag night .
we just wanted to know , what about a normal , stinky electric battery ?
how far do you get there ?
and then did a whole bunch of simulations .
and they &apos;ve simulated wind and sun and the load , and they &apos;ve come to the conclusion , a very exciting conclusion that you &apos;re facing the conventional system that , after 20 years , takes about 50 cents per kilowatt-hour mediowatt-hour , about 40 cents .
these were the very first calculations six years ago .
and then we said , okay .
well , it &apos;s great , then we have a business model .
we &apos;re cheaper than the same system , if the same price goes up five percent a year .
and then we started negotiating with insulanders .
we can move from the poster to a physical view of the environment .
what would have to be done ?
have negotiated with investors , i &apos;ve been looking for new social sheep .
we were only five people at the time to rebuild a society .
and here &apos;s the picture again .
the brown is kind of the conventional system , the green is our system .
that our system also has a price increase , because we &apos;re doing 20 percent of this with this , and we &apos;re not going to go through a price increase in the other things .
and the power-utility , the power utility that the power company on the island , has meant that &apos;s what we love .
we also want to support , but we don &apos;t believe you can solve the technical problem .
and that &apos;s why we decided to build a hall in berlin , where we can sort of map the electrical ratios of the island at one in three very precisely .
that means we &apos;ve been looking for the first time to find the world &apos;s largest battery .
the point here is that we can do things with the social environment . it &apos;s now collected data from everybody -- from all the collective memory of what , visually , the earth looks like -- and everything is connected to each other .
here it is .
it comes naturally from asia , in the case of japan .
and funny , in the &apos; 70s , it was developed at bbc mannheim , today abb , and then it was licensed to the japanese .
it &apos;s a very , very large battery , you can see .
it &apos;s got a megawatt of performance , and it can produce this performance for six hours , and that &apos;s the battery that we kind of got out simulation technology .
and then they set them up .
we also have one of these same aggregate in the same size as it &apos;s standing there , put it in the hall , in fact , the entire dynamic behavior of this web , so in the hall , it looks like this now , there &apos;s the one in the back , here &apos;s the big battery , here &apos;s all the reviewers that we &apos;re simulating the net .
over here , we simulate the whole transmission system , the kilometers of physics of cables , to sort of map the vibrational behavior on the net .
and here you can see the whole thing again .
we can also turn on the net two hundred kilowatts of photovoltaics .
and of course , we all share the same adaptations .
it &apos;s a means to find the soul of a certain culture access to the material world .
all these photos are connected , and there &apos;s something that &apos;s bigger than the sum of the parts .
here &apos;s what we see again , again , the diesel , again , the whole , single aggregate .
and what we &apos;ve done since the last two thousand and a half was done , until today , two-thousandth , basically everything that was here between the single system of electronics , of software , we &apos;ve done .
so we &apos;re not a battery manufacturer , but we define ourselves as a company that &apos;s just between the battery and the theme and everything in between .
you have to communicate to the battery , of course , you have to be able to communicate to the web , and that &apos;s very complicated .
the nice thing about this island is that you can basically take away everything that you &apos;re going to get from problems that we &apos;re going to get if we &apos;re going to increase our percentage of renewables .
so this whole discussion , like right now , is moving back and forth , energy turning , like going , on the island , we have , for example , five to 30 percent excess energy , so we &apos;re tiring the wind and the sun .
natural light then offers smart grid .
so smart-grid , a huge topic everywhere .
we can start to integrate electrical mobility on the island , to ask , because you can manage the burden .
that means , if you &apos;re seven percent renewable , you &apos;re not going to be able to do it without memory .
they get a model that comes from all over the world .
you can do it through n smart-grid , you can do it by expanding the nets , yes , you should be doing it anyway , listening to the percentage , but you will never be able to remove to memory completely .
and that &apos;s a little bit of a message .
that &apos;s why a lot of people come and look at this , because you can see what problems you get .
if we turn off this one , you don &apos;t have this rotating mass anymore that causes a certain amount of inertia on the net .
and our european network is basically just a loud mass of big power plants , where the wave is always around europe .
we look into this web , we see the 50 hertz , and if it &apos;s going to be ninety-nine hertz , we &apos;ll start making some valves , then we &apos;ll go back a little bit , a little merh steam , and then we &apos;ll come back up again .
that &apos;s the system .
and of course , this is incredibly commissioned .
if you tear it down somewhere , it takes a while .
the spinning reserve has at least 10 seconds to keep the web stable .
think of this as the sequel of stephen lawlers &apos; work to virtual earth .
and in time , they can react to other things .
if you don &apos;t have that anymore , that rotating mass , you have to replace that with power electronics and electrochemistry .
and we can turn two milliseconds out with this big battery .
and then you can see what are the enormous speed possibilities there .
and the message is , we have to rely on these rotating masses , if we kind of 20 , 20 , 20 percent , 20 percent , 20 , 30 , 30 percent , and so on , if we want to achieve them .
then we have to break down our museums run capacity on the net .
must-run is simple , the power plant is running with the frequency to keep the frequency .
yeah , that &apos;s a huge debate right now , building the coal power plant , because we &apos;re not going to do anything else , or gasturbines , because that &apos;s not going to happen .
and we &apos;re just trying to make it clear that you can break down the capacity , the courage run , by also putting electrochemical stores on the net .
and luckily , there are a lot of studies now .
and this is something that , through the complexity that people use it with , is growing , and it &apos;s getting bigger and bigger for the user to use it .
and in this case , people always come and look at our temptation on the , sort of , our island test .
and yes , the discussion is always about the question of , how far can you take a piece of the future away ?
and many discussions that i &apos;ve had in the last six years have been similar to the discussion that i &apos;ve had in the last 30 years about photovoltaics .
don &apos;t go , is weakness , child &apos;s toy , we &apos;ve calculated everything , never calculated .
we have 30 gigawatts of photovoltaics in germany today .
this is pictured .
and i just assume that in the next 30 years , we will have the same capacity of electrochemical stores around the world .
very simple , this is how it &apos;s going to happen .
there &apos;s going to be a lot of resistance and arguments .
the nice thing is , i &apos;ve kind of experienced right now in the last two years , that the scientists are putting themselves on my side .
your own photos are reported with metadata that one other person has entered .
we &apos;ve now gotten over 10 million funding projects , even to climb 10 megawatt-battery now to the german net .
this is going to happen next april .
so from that , you also realize that there &apos;s a change there , and it &apos;s only from that defense to yes , to the idea , a hundred percent renewable , yes .
and if you have a hundred percent renewable , it &apos;s like a self-assembly system .
so , in discussions , they &apos;re always trying to do this insulaner , they &apos;re having an autark , they have their own little net , and it has nothing to do with our compound .
the question is , quite simply , if you &apos;re totally independent of any fossil or uranium energy that &apos;s being drilled out somewhere in the world , you &apos;re an island .
then they just use what &apos;s there on the sun and the wind , where they live .
and that &apos;s a little bit of our vision of a reasonable energy supply , and i &apos;m also grateful to cradle that they said they &apos;re using solar energy .
and that &apos;s what we do , and in that way , premium kola &apos;s talk , that you can be a collective again and use solar energy , here &apos;s a little bit together .
and yeah , i just want to encourage you , in the sense that you can still be a little crazy and also have a vision .
if someone has made the effort and labeled all these sacred ones and told who they are , then my photo will be filled with the emergenre dam cathedral suddenly with all of this data , and i can use it as a starting point to dive into this room , into these metaverse , which take pictures of other people and make a kind of cross-disciplinary model social experience with the use of others .
and you really have to be pretty tough , but i think it &apos;s going to happen .
thank you .
when steve lopez , columnist of the los angeles times , one day went through the streets in the center of los angeles , he heard a wonderful music .
she came from a man , an african-american , sympathetic , rau , homeless , who played on a violin who had only two strings .
many of you will know the story , because from steves article , later , a book that was filmed , again , with robert downey junior , when steve lopez and jamie foxx was a nathaniel anthony ayers , the contrab who studied the juilliard conservatory , and whose promising career was tragically ended early on by his paranoid schizophrenia .
nathaniel left juilliard , suffered a breakdown , and 30 years later , he lived as homeless on the streets of skid row in the center of los angeles .
i recommend to all of you to read steves &apos; book , or to watch the film , so you don &apos;t just understand the wonderful interconnectedness that has arisen between these two men , but also how music has helped make that connection , and how it was the instrument , after all , when this game is allowed to get the mithalf , nathaniel away from the street .
i met mr ayers in 2008 , two years ago , in the walt disney concert hall .
he had just heard a demonstration of beethoven &apos;s first and fourth symphony and came behind the stage to imagine .
he spoke in a very healthier and gregarious note about yo-yo ma and hillary clinton and how the dodgers would never make it into the baseball world series , and all of that because of the dancing passage of the first violin in the last sentence of beethoven &apos;s fourth symphony .
and of course , byproduct of all of these are the immense virtual models of every interesting part of the earth that have not only been preserved by flights or satellite images and so on , but by collectively storage .
we came to talk to music , and a few days later , i got an email that said nathaniel was interested in self-schooling .
i have to mention that nathaniel had a medical treatment , because he had been treated with electroshocks and handcuffs , a trauma that followed him all his life .
as a result , he &apos;s now particularly vulnerable to these schizophrenic phases . they &apos;re so bad sometimes , and he disappears for days in the streets of skid row , always exposed to this horror and the torture of his own mind .
and in just like a rice stage , nathaniel was when we started with our first lesson in walt disney concert hall , and he had this miserable flicker in his eyes , and he was completely lost .
he talked about invisible demons and smoke and how someone wanted to poison him in the sleep .
i was scared , not because of me , but i was afraid that i could lose him , that he could sink into one of his states , and that i could destroy his relationship with the violin when i started talking about pitches and arpeggios and other exciting forms of didactic violin .
so i just started playing .
i played the first sentence by beethoven &apos;s violin concert .
and as i was playing , i noticed that in nathaniel &apos;s eyes , there was a complete change going on .
it was as if he was standing under the impact of an invisible pharmaceutical response , a chemical reaction whose catalyst was my game .
thank you .
nathaniels of manic anger turned into understanding , into quiet curiosity and grace .
and like a miracle , he took his violin and began to play some clips of violin concerts and then asked me to end it : mendelsson , tschaikowski , sibelius .
we started talking about music , from bach to beethoven , brahms , bruckers and all the other bs , from bartok to esa pekka salons .
and i realized that he had not only an encyclopedic knowledge of music , but he also had a close personal relationship with it .
he was talking about her with a passion and an understanding that i otherwise only know about my colleagues in the philharmony of los angeles .
by playing music and talking about music , this paranoid , confused man who had just moved through the streets of los angeles , a loving , educated , skilled , educated musician in juilliard .
music is medicine . music changes us .
for nathaniel , music means mental health .
because the music allows him to reform his thoughts and delusions with his imagination and creativity into something real .
and so he escapes his agonizing states .
i understand it right ? your software allows you to , at a certain point , within the next few years , all the images that are being used by somebody in the world together are basically connected to each other ?
i understood that this is the nature of art .
this is why we make music : so that we can make something that is deep inside all of us , our emotions , through our artistic lens , through our creativity to reality .
and the reality of that expression reaches us all , and moves , inspired and united .
as nathaniel approached , the music brought him back into a community of friends .
the devastating power of music brought him back into a family of musicians who understood him , who recognized his talent and saw him .
and i will keep playing with nathaniel , whether in the walt disney concert hall or in skid row , because he reminds me why i became a musician .
thank you .
bruno giussani : thank you . thank you .
robert gupta .
robert gupta : i want to play something that i &apos;ve stolen the cellist .
yeah . it does nothing but discover .
i hope you &apos;ll forgive me .
so i &apos;ve known a lot of fish in my life .
i just loved two .
this first one , this was more like a passionate monkey .
it was a beautiful fish , tasty , good consistency , content , a bestseller on the menu .
what a fish .
even better , he was raised in aquaculture by the supposedly highest standards of sustainability .
so you could feel comfortable selling it .
i had a relationship with this beauty over several months .
one day , the head of the company called and asked if i could speak at an event about the sustainability of the farm .
every language is like an old-fashioned forest of the mind , a turning point , an idea , an ecosystem of spiritual possibilities .
if you want , you create hyperlinks between the images .
&quot; of course , &quot; i said .
here was a company trying to solve what this unimaginable problem was for our chefs . how do we keep fish on our menu ?
in the last 50 years , we &apos;ve fished the ocean as we &apos;ve beaten forests .
it &apos;s hard to overestimate the destruction .
90 percent of the big fish that we love , the tuna , the heilbutte , the salmon , swordfish , they &apos;ve collapsed .
there &apos;s almost nothing left .
so , i think or bad aquaculture , fisheries , will be part of our future .
many arguments against it . fishing facilities are polluting the environment , most of them anyway , and they &apos;re inefficient , we take tuna . a big disadvantage .
he has a 15 to one feeding rate .
that means 15 pounds of wild fish are necessary to get a pound of light tuna .
and she does this because of the content in the images .
not very sustainable .
it doesn &apos;t taste very good either .
so finally , here was a company that was trying to do it right .
i wanted to support them .
the day before the event , i called the head of public work for the company .
let &apos;s call it don .
&quot; don , &quot; i said , &quot; just to get the facts right , you &apos;re famous for growing so far out in the sea that you don &apos;t pollution the environment . &quot;
&quot; that &apos;s true , &quot; he said . &quot; we &apos;re so far out that the waste is distributed by our fish is not concentrated . &quot;
and then he added , &quot; we &apos;re basically a world .
this feeding rate from 2.5 to one , &quot; he said .
and that &apos;s really exciting when you think about the abundance of the semantic information that many of these images have .
&quot; the best in the industry . &quot;
2.5 to one , great .
&quot; 2.5 to one ? what do you feed ? &quot;
&quot; sustainable proteins , &quot; he said .
&quot; great , &quot; i said . put it on .
and that night i was lying in bed thinking , what the hell is a sustainable protein ?
so the next day , right before the event , don .
i said , &quot; don , for example , what are sustainable proteins ? &quot;
he said he doesn &apos;t know . he &apos;s going to demand .
well , i telephone with a few people in the company , and no one could give me a proper answer , until i finally telephone with the leading biologist .
it &apos;s like taking a web search for images where you type sentences and the text of the website contains a lot of information about what image that is .
let &apos;s call it don as well .
&quot; don , &quot; i said , &quot; for example , what are sustainable proteins ? &quot;
well , he mentioned some algae and some fish meals , and then he said , chicken pellets .
i said , &quot; chicken pellets ? &quot;
he said , &quot; yes , feathers , skin , bone flour , rests , dried and processed for food . &quot;
i said , &quot; how much percent of your food is chicken ? &quot;
in the presumption of maybe two percent .
&quot; well , that &apos;s about 30 percent , &quot; he said .
i said , &quot; don , what &apos;s sustainable about feeding chicken to fish ? &quot;
there was a long break in the line , and he said , &quot; there &apos;s just too much chicken in the world . &quot;
but what if the image connected you to all of your images ?
i fell in love with this fish .
no , not because i &apos;m a self-righteous and good person .
that &apos;s actually me .
no , i actually fell in love with this fish , because , i swear to god , who &apos;s been smashing for this conversation .
this second fish , this is a different kind of love story .
it &apos;s the romantic way , the more you know your fish , the more you love the fish .
i first ate it in a restaurant in southern spain .
a friend of mine had been talking about this fish for a long time .
it sort of wired us up .
he came up on the table with a bright , almost shiny white color .
then the scale of the semantic cross connection and the abundance that comes out of it is really enormous . it &apos;s a classic network effect .
the chef had cooked it .
hold twice .
amazingly , he was still delicious .
who can make a fish taste so good after it &apos;s been cooked ?
i can &apos;t , but this guy can .
let &apos;s call it miguel . in fact , it &apos;s called miguel .
and no , he didn &apos;t cook the fish , and he &apos;s not a chef , at least in the way that you and i understand it .
he &apos;s a biologist at veta la palma .
this is a fish elevator in the southwestern corner of spain .
she &apos;s near the mouths of the river of guadalquivir .
blaise , that &apos;s really incredible . heartfelt congratulations .
until the 1980s , the farm was in the hands of argentina .
they were growing meat cattle on what was basically wetlands .
they did that by dewatering the country .
they built this complicated series of channels , and they pushed water out of the land and out into the river .
well , they couldn &apos;t make a difference that this was going to work , not economically .
and ecologically , it was a disaster .
it killed about 90 percent of the birds , which is a lot of birds in this place .
and so in 1982 , a spanish company with environmental awareness bought the country .
what did they do ?
they &apos;ve reversed the flow of the water .
thank you very much .
they literally replaced the lever .
instead of pushing the water out , they used the channels to pull the water back in .
they flooded the channels .
they created a 11,000 acres of fish -- barch , sea , shrimp , aal -- and his company completely reversed the ecological destruction .
the farm is incredible .
i mean , you &apos;ve never seen anything like that .
they &apos;re staring out at the horizon , which is a million miles away , and all they &apos;re seeing is flooded channels and this density , lush march .
i was there not a long time ago with miguel .
he &apos;s an incredible guy , three parts of charles darwin and a part of &quot; a crocodile to kiss . &quot;
okay ? there we were and fought through the wetlands and i cookie and sweat , i have a mud to my knees , and miguel has a biology lecture in quiet .
i &apos;m going to tell you some things from my book that , i hope , are in consensus with other things that you &apos;ve heard , and i &apos;m going to try and create a couple of connections if you haven &apos;t noticed them .
this is him highlighting a rare glider .
now he mentioned the mineral needs of phytoplankton .
and here , he sees a pattern of bundles that remind him of the tanzanian giraffe .
it turns out that miguel has spent most of his career in mikumi national park in africa .
i asked him how he became such a fish expert .
he said , &quot; fish ? i don &apos;t know anything about fish .
i &apos;m an expert in relationships . &quot;
and then he goes and stores into more rarely birds and algae and strange water plants .
and don &apos;t get me wrong , that was really fascinating , you know , the biotic community of implugged , like that .
it &apos;s great , but i was in love .
i want to start with what i call &quot; official dogma . &quot;
and my head got weak about this cooked piece of delicious fish that i had the night before .
so i interrupted it . i said , &quot; miguel , how come your fish taste so good ? &quot;
he pointed at the algae .
&quot; i know boy , the algae , the phytoplankton , the relationships , that &apos;s incredible .
but what are your fish eating ?
what &apos;s the food processing ? &quot;
well , he continues to tell me that it &apos;s such a rich system that the fish eat what they would eat in the wild .
the plant biomass , the phytoplankton , the zooplankton , is what feeds the fish .
the system is so healthy , it &apos;s completely self-neglecting .
there &apos;s no food .
and of those 6,000 languages today , as we sit here in monterey , half of them are no longer whispered into the ears of children .
the official dogma of what ?
ever heard of a farm that doesn &apos;t feed its animals ?
later on the day , i was driving around on this site with miguel , and i asked him , i said , &quot; for a place that seems so natural , &quot; unlike any farm i &apos;ve ever been to , &quot; how do you measure success ? &quot;
at the moment , it was as if a film director had demanded a stage shift .
and we bent around the corner and offered ourselves the most incredible look , thousands and thousands of pink flamingos , a literally pink carpet as far as the eye is .
&quot; that &apos;s success , &quot; he said .
&quot; look at your bellies , pink .
they &apos;re bad . &quot;
bad ? i was completely confused .
i said , &quot; miguel , don &apos;t you put your fish ? &quot;
&quot; yes , &quot; he said .
official belief of all western industrialized societies .
&quot; we lose 20 percent of our fish and fish eggs to the birds .
well , last year , on this site , 600,000 birds , more than 250 different species .
it &apos;s become the largest and one of the most important private bird reserves in all of europe today .
i said , &quot; miguel , is a well-flourishing bird population not the last thing you want to have on a fish farm ? &quot;
he shake his head , no .
he said , &quot; we &apos;re building extensively , not intensely .
this is an ecological network .
the flamingos eat the shrimp .
the shrimp eats the phytoplankton .
so the lighter the gut the better the system . &quot;
the way the official dogma works is that if our goal is to maximize the well-being of our citizens , it &apos;s mostly through maximizing the freedom of the individual .
okay , let &apos;s rethink that . a farm that doesn &apos;t feed its animals and a farm that measures its success in the health of their predators .
a fish farm , but also a bird reserve .
oh , and by the way , these flamingos shouldn &apos;t even be there at the beginning .
they breed in a city of 240 miles away , where the land environment is better for nest maintenance .
every morning , they fly 240 miles to the farm .
and every night , they fly back 240 miles .
they do that because they can follow the strictly white line of the highway a92 .
seriously .
i had a kind of journey from the penguins , so i looked at miguel .
i said , &quot; miguel , are you going to fly 240 miles to the farm and then fly back 240 miles in the evening ?
the reason for this is that freedom in itself is good , valuable , meaningful , an unprecedented assumption for the human .
do you do that for the kids ? &quot;
he looked at me as if i had just quoted a song by whitney houston .
he said , &quot; no . you do it because the food is better . &quot;
i didn &apos;t mention the skin of my beloved fish , which was delicious , and i don &apos;t like fish skin . i don &apos;t like it . i don &apos;t like it crunchy .
it &apos;s this biting , coiled taste .
i almost never cook with it .
and yet , when i tried it in this restaurant in southern spain , it didn &apos;t look like fish skin at all .
she tasted sweet and pure as if you were to take a bite from the ocean .
i mentioned that to miguel , and he was nodding .
he said , &quot; the skin looks like a sponge .
when people have freedom , each of us is about doing the things that maximize our common good and no one has to decide for us .
she &apos;s the last defense before something comes into the body .
it &apos;s evolved over the course of evolution to suck up uncleaners . &quot;
and then he added , &quot; but our water doesn &apos;t have uncleaners . &quot;
okay . a farm that doesn &apos;t feed its fish , a farm that measures its success in their predators &apos; success .
and then i realized , when he says a farm that doesn &apos;t have any purity , he &apos;s powering enormous , because the water that flows through this farm comes from the river of guadalquivir .
it &apos;s a river that leads all these things , which rivers now tend to lead to , chemical pollutants , abundance of pest control .
and when it fought through the system , and this one leaves the water clean than how it came in .
the system is so healthy , it cleans the water .
so not just a farm that doesn &apos;t feed its animals , not just a farm that measures its success in the health of their predators , but a farm that is literally a water treatment plant , and not just for these fish , but for you and me .
because when the water flows out , it goes down in the atlantic .
the way to maximize freedom is to maximize choice .
a drop in the ocean , i know , but i &apos;m going to take it , and you should do that , because that love story , however romantic , is also revelatory .
you might say that it &apos;s a recipe for the future of good food , whether we &apos;re talking about bark or meat .
what we need now is a radical new concept of agriculture , of one where food actually tastes good .
but for a lot of people , that &apos;s a little bit too radical .
we &apos;re not realists , we &apos;re more enjoyable . we &apos;re lovers .
we love farmers &apos; markets . we love small family businesses . we talk about local food . we eat organic .
and if you say that these are the things that the future is good food , somebody gets up somewhere and says , &quot; hey guys , i love pink flamingos , but how are you going to feed the world ?
how will you feed the world ? &quot;
can i be honest ?
i don &apos;t like that question .
the more choices people have , the more freedom they have , and the more freedom they have , the more common good they have .
no , not because we &apos;re producing enough calories to feed the world more than just .
a billion people are going to starve today .
a billion -- that &apos;s more than ever before -- because of crasser inequalities in the distribution , not the overall production .
well , i don &apos;t like that question , because it has determined the logic of our food system for the last 50 years .
fatty grain of herbivores , pest resistance to monocultures , chemicals to the earth , chickens to fish , and all the time the agribusiness just asked , &quot; if we feed more people cheaper , how terrible can that be ? &quot;
that was the cause of the movement . it was the justification . it was the business plan of american agriculture .
we should call them what it is , a prisoner in deployment , a commercial that quickly ecological capital that allows that production to happen .
this is not a commercial , and it &apos;s not agriculture .
our coral chamber is now threatened , not because of the declining supply , but because of the declining resources .
not through the latest mice and tractor inventions , but through fertile land , not through pumps , but through fresh water , not through chainsaws , but through forests , and not through fishing boats and nets , but through fish in the sea .
this , i think , is so deeply embedded in our water supply that it wouldn &apos;t make any sense to question it .
you want to feed the world ?
let &apos;s start with the question : how are we going to feed ourselves ?
or better , how can we create conditions that enable every community to feed themselves ?
to do that , don &apos;t look at the agrarian industrial model for the future .
it &apos;s really old , and it &apos;s done .
capital , chemistry and machines are on top of it , and it &apos;s never really produced a good thing to eat .
instead , let &apos;s look at the ecological model .
that &apos;s the one that goes back to two billion years of labor experience .
look at miguel , farmers like miguel .
businesses that are not worlds for themselves , operations that restore instead of using up , operations that grow extensively , rather than just intense , farmers that are not just generators , but experts on relationships .
and it &apos;s also deeply rooted in our lives .
because they &apos;re the ones who are also experts for taste .
and if i &apos;m really honest , you &apos;re a better chef than i &apos;ll ever be .
you know , that &apos;s right to me , because if that &apos;s the future of good food , it will be delicious .
thank you .
now , if i want to suggest to you one thing today , it &apos;s that the total of the data that we consume is bigger than the sum of its parts , and instead of thinking about information overload , i want you to think about how we can use information to create patterns , and we see trends that would otherwise have not been visible .
so what we &apos;re seeing here is a typical mortality diagram arranged by age .
the program i use here is a little experiment .
it &apos;s called pivot , and what i can do with pivot is i can filter after a certain cause of death , let &apos;s say accidents .
and immediately , i see another pattern that comes out .
and that &apos;s because in the middle here , people are the most active , and they &apos;re the most calculated over here .
i &apos;m going to give you some examples of what makes modern progress possible .
we can go one step further and rearrange the data and see that cycular disease and cancer are the usual suspects , but not for everyone .
now , as we go on and sort at age , we say 40 years or more recently , we see that accidents are even the main thing that people should worry about .
and those who are continuing to see that this is especially true with men .
so you can see that looking at information and data in this way is very reminiscent of swimming in a living information graph .
and if we can do this for raw data , why not for content itself ?
so what we have here are the title images of every single sports illustrated ever printed .
it &apos;s all here . it &apos;s all online .
you can test it after my talk in your rooms .
with pivot , you can immerse in a decade .
you can dive into a particular year .
they &apos;re no longer teaching little kids . that means , if nothing is done , they &apos;re actually dead .
this is my supermarket . it &apos;s not a big one .
you can jump directly to a particular copy .
now , when i look here , i see the athletes that appear in this issue and the sports species .
i &apos;m a lance armstrong fan , so i click on this , and i &apos;m going to show you all the spending that lance armstrong is mentioned in .
now , if i just want to get a bigger overview , i could think , &quot; ok , what if i look at everything about biking ? &quot;
so i &apos;m going to take a step back and i &apos;m going to take a look at it .
now i see greg lemond .
and so you get an idea that if you go through this kind of information , targeted , wider , wider , zoom in , you don &apos;t seek out , you don &apos;t just surf .
you do something that &apos;s actually a little bit different .
it &apos;s a little bit in between , and we think it changes the way information can be used .
so i want to take this idea a little bit further with something a little bit crazy .
i just want to say a little bit about salatdressing .
what we &apos;ve done here is we &apos;ve taken every single wikipediaseite and we &apos;ve reduced it to a little summary .
the summary contains a short overview and a symbol of the area that it comes from .
i &apos;m just showing the top 500 of the most popular wikipediasites .
but even in this limited view , we can do a lot of things .
immediately , we get a sense of the topics that are most popular on wikipedia .
so i &apos;m going to choose the issue of government .
now , after i &apos;ve chosen government , i realize that the wikipediakatories that are most likely to cover time magazine &quot; people of the year . &quot;
this is really important because this is a realization that is not in a single wiki pediaset .
that &apos;s just recognizing when you step back and look at the whole thing .
looking at one of these summaries , i can then go into the theme of time magazine , &quot; people of the year , &quot; and see everybody together .
there are 175 dressings in my supermarket , if you don &apos;t count the 10 extra olive oil and 12 balsamico-essions that you could buy to make a big number of your own salad dessings , in the unlikely case that none of the 175 is right for you .
now , when i look at all these people , i realize that the majority of them are government officials . some of them come from science . some of them , even less , come from the economy . here &apos;s my boss . and one comes from the music field .
and interestingly , bono is also a ted prize winner .
so we can jump and look at all the ted prize winners .
you see , we surf the web for the first time , as if it &apos;s actually a web , not just from side to side , but much more abstract .
and so i want to show you something else that might be a little bit of a surprise .
i &apos;m just showing you the new york times website here .
pivot , this application -- i don &apos;t want to call it a browser ; it &apos;s really not a browser , but you can look at websites with it -- and we bring this zoom-technology to every single website like this .
so i can take a step back and jump directly to a specific section .
and that &apos;s important because you can only look at websites in this way , look at the whole internet course in the same way .
so i can zoom in in in my course in a certain time frame .
so that &apos;s what the supermarket is like .
here &apos;s the state of the whole demonstration that i &apos;ve been holding up to this .
and i can sort of bring back everything i &apos;ve been looking at so far .
and , if i take a step out and look at everything , i might rearrange my trajectory for my search past , here , i looked for nepotistic , here for bing , or live labs .
and from here , i can go into the site and call it up again .
it &apos;s a metaphor that &apos;s used over and over again , and every time it makes the whole picture bigger than the sum of the data .
right now , in this world , we think that data is a curse .
we &apos;re talking about the curse of information surplus .
we &apos;re talking about &quot; drowning in information . &quot;
what if we could turn this situation around and turn the internet on its head , so that instead of always going from one to another , we can start to go from many things to many things , and see patterns that would have remained otherwise hidden ?
if we can do that , then this data trap , maybe a new source of information becomes meaningful .
and then you go to the consumer electronics business to put together a stereo system -- loudspeakers , cd players , a cassette player , radio , amplifier . and in this one electronics business , there are so many stereo facilities .
and , instead of just moving into information , we can get knowledge from it .
and if we know , maybe we can pull wisdom out of it .
so i &apos;ll stop , thank you very much .
i grew up with a belonged portion of science fiction .
in my school , i went to school with the bus , every day , one hour per track .
and my nose always stuck in a book , a science fiction book , which kidnapped my mind into other worlds and , in a narrative way , satisfied my deep sitting in me , insatiable curiosity .
this curiosity also showed that whenever i wasn &apos;t in school , i would go through the forests , and i would go and collect &quot; samples &quot; and frogs and snakes and beetles and dough water , and i would bring it home and look under the microscope .
i was absolutely excited about science , you know .
it was always about trying to understand the world and to explore the boundaries of the possible .
and my love of science fiction seemed to reflect in my environment , because back in the late &apos; 60s , we flew to the moon and explored the deep sea .
we can assemble 6.5 million different stereo facilities from the components that are offered in this one business .
jacques cousteau came into our living rooms with his fascinating shows that showed us animals and places and a world of wonder that we never could have imagined before .
i think that &apos;s been pretty good for the science fiction roll .
and i was an artist .
i could draw . i could paint .
and since there was no video games or this over-saturation with computer-generated movies or the whole imagery in the media landscape , i had to create the images in my head .
we all had to do that at the time . when we read a book as children , we took the description of the author and we projected it onto the canvas in our heads .
my response to this was to draw and paint from alien worlds , alien worlds , robots , spacecraft ships and all that kind of thing .
in math class , i was always caught by the teacher , like i was hiding behind the textbook .
the creativity had to be kind of out .
and something interesting happened to me , because what fascinated me about jacques cousteaus &apos;s shows was the idea of a completely unknown world here on our earth itself .
you have to admit that this is a big choice .
i certainly would never get to an alien world with a spaceship , which seemed pretty unlikely to me .
but here was a world that i could actually enter , here on earth , and it was just as fascinating and exotic as all i had always imagined when i read these books .
so , when i was 15 , i decided to be a diver .
the only problem was that i lived in a small village in canada , 1,000 miles away from the nearest ocean .
but i didn &apos;t let myself down .
i annoyed my father until he finally found a diving school in buffalo , new york , just on the other side of the border where we lived .
i made my dive in a pool of ymca in the middle of the winter in buffalo , new york .
but the ocean , a real ocean , i only got to face two years later when we moved to california .
since then , in the 40 years that have been disputed , i &apos;ve spent about 3,000 hours underwater , 500 hours of it in submersibles .
and i &apos;ve learned that the world of the deep sea , even in the flat oceans , is as rich as we can really hardly imagine .
in other areas -- the world of communication .
nature &apos;s imagination doesn &apos;t know boundaries , as opposed to our own , noisy human imagination .
until today , i have a deep awe for what i see on my dives .
and my love of the ocean lasts with the same intensity as ever .
so when i went to a job as an adult , it was the filmmaking .
that seemed the best way to tell my inner drive to tell stories , with my need to create images , to unite .
as a child , i was constantly drawing comic books and so on .
so movies were the way to bring images and stories together , and that fit together .
of course , the stories i chose were from the science-fiction area : &quot; terminator , &quot; &quot; &quot; aliens , &quot; and &quot; abyss . &quot;
in &quot; abyss , &quot; i was able to connect my preference to the underwater world and the diving with the filmmaking .
so my two passions kind of intertwined .
there was a time when i was a boy , you could have every telephone that you wanted as long as it came from ma bell .
something interesting happened in &quot; abyss , &quot; in order to solve a narrative problem in this film -- and that is , we had to create a kind of liquid water creature -- we took it back to computer-generated animation , cg .
and what came out was the first computer-generated software surfing figure that was ever seen in a movie .
the film didn &apos;t bring money , in fact , he just played his cost of production , but i noticed something fascinating : the audience around the world was like hypnotized by the magic that went out of it .
according to arthur clarke &apos;s law , famously advanced technology and magic are no longer different from each other .
so they saw something magical .
and i found this incredibly exciting .
and i thought to myself , &quot; wow , that has to be involved in film art . &quot;
so we went in &quot; terminator 2 , &quot; my next film , much further .
together with ilm , we created the guy of liquid metal , and the success depended on how this effect was going to happen .
and it worked . again , we had created something magical , and the effect in the audience was the same , but we &apos;ve played a little bit more money with the film .
you rented your phone . you didn &apos;t buy it .
from these two experiences , a whole new world had reached , a whole new world of creativity for filmmaking .
so i started a company with my good friend stan winston , who was the best make-up and creature-designer at that time , and it was called digital domain .
the basic idea of this company was to skip the phase of analogy with optical printers , etc . , and start right away with digital productions .
so we did that , and we made a competitive advantage for a while .
but in the mid- &apos; 90s , we realized that we were in creature-design -- which we had actually started the company -- we were getting too slow .
i had written this piece , &quot; avatar , &quot; which was the measure of visual effects and computer-generated effects all over new heights , with realistic human , expressive characters that had been made using cg , and the main characters should all be cg . and the world should be cg .
but the bar was pretty much pushing back , and the people in my company told me that we weren &apos;t able to do that .
so i shifted that , and i made this other film about the big ship that goes down .
i sold this to the film studio as &quot; romeo and juliet on a ship . &quot; it became a love film of epic scale , a passionate film .
but secretly , i really wanted to go down to the real wreck of the titanic .
what could be more lonely than to be surrounded by silence , one of the last of your people who speak your language , have no way to pass on the wisdom of the ancestors , or to expect the hope of children ?
a consequence of that was that the phone was never broken .
that &apos;s why i made the film .
that &apos;s the truth . the studio didn &apos;t know .
but i convinced them by saying , &quot; we &apos;re diving to the wreck . we &apos;re filming the real wreck .
we &apos;re going to show it in the opening sequence of the film .
that &apos;s terribly important . it &apos;s a good advocate for marketing . &quot;
and i convinced them to fund an expedition .
sounds crazy . but again , it goes back to the fact that your imagination can create a reality .
we actually created a reality six months later where i found myself in a russian submersible , four kilometers below the surface of the north atlantic , looking at the real titanic through a bulleye .
that was not a film , no hd , that was real .
so , that really blew my mind .
these days are over .
and the preparation for that was enormous . we had to build cameras and headlights and everything .
and i noticed how much these deep-sea dives looked like a space mission .
well , they were also highly technological , and they were also required to have extensive planning .
you go up into this capsule , and then you float down into this dark , hostile environment , where there &apos;s no hope for rescue , if you can &apos;t make it yourself back .
and i thought , &quot; wow , that &apos;s like i &apos;m in a science fiction movie .
that &apos;s really cool . &quot;
i was actually obsessed with exploring the deep sea .
anyway , from the part that had to do with curiosity and science . it was all . it was adventure , it was curiosity . it was imagination .
and it was an experience that i couldn &apos;t give to hollywood .
because , you know , i could imagine a creature that we could then design a visual effect , but i couldn &apos;t imagine what i would see outside the window .
we now have almost an infinite choice of telephones , especially in the world of mobile phones .
in some of the following expeditions , i &apos;ve seen creatures in thermal sources , and sometimes things that i &apos;ve never seen before , sometimes things that no one had ever seen before , and the science at the time when we saw them , had not found words .
so that really flipped me around , and i wanted more .
and so i made a slightly unusual decision .
after the success of &quot; titanic , &quot; i said , &quot; okay , i want to put my main job as a filmmaker in hollywood , and i &apos;m going to be a full-time researcher for a while . &quot;
and then we started , we went to the bismarck , and we studied them with robotic experiences .
we went back to the wreck of the titanic .
we took little robots that we built that wrapped a fiberglass cable .
our intention was to dive in and look at the inside of the ship , which had never been done before .
no one had ever explored the inside of the wreck . you didn &apos;t have any means to do it , so we developed the technology that we needed .
so , i &apos;m sitting on the deck of the titanic , in a submersible , and i see planks that are quite similar to these breeds , and i know that once the band has played there .
these are the mobile phones of the future .
and i fly with a little robotic experience through the gears of the ship .
actually , i &apos;m just praying it , but my consciousness is within the vehicle .
it felt like i was physically present within the titanic ship wreck .
this was the most surreal form of a déjan vu that i &apos;ve ever experienced , because before i bow around a corner , i &apos;ve always known what was about to appear in the light cone of the vehicle , because i had run through the film set for months when we made the film .
the set was an accurate copy of the ship &apos;s design plans .
so this was a very strange experience .
she made me realize that this telepresence experience is that you can use robotic avatars and put your consciousness in the vehicle , into this other form of existence .
it was really , really profound .
and maybe a little bit of a look at what might happen in a few decades , if you have cyborg bodies to explore or do other things , in all kinds of post-humane future scenarios that i can think of as a science fiction fan .
after these expeditions , we really started to appreciate what we saw down there , for example , these deep-sea sources , where we saw these incredibly amazing animals , which are sort of aliens , but here on earth .
my favorite one is the middle -- mp3 player , nasal hair trimmer and crème brna fackel .
they live with chemosynthesis .
they don &apos;t exist in a sunlight system , as we do .
and so you see animals that are right next to 500 degrees celsius , that they can survive there .
at the same time , i was also very interested in space science , which was again the science fiction of my childhood .
and so i ended up with the people who are interested in space and who have to do with nasa , and they sit in the nasa expertise council and they plan real space missions . they go to russia , they go through the mission of biomedical protocol , they get all the way around , and they fly to the international space station and they take our 3d camera systems .
that was fascinating .
but at the end of it , it occurred to me that i took space scientists to the deep sea .
i took them with me , and i shepherded them access to the world down there : astrobiologists , planetary scientists , people who were interested in such extreme situations , and i took them to the sources so they could look around , sample and test instruments and so on .
we made documentary films , but we actually did science , more specifically , space science .
so the circle between my existence as a science fiction fan , at the time as a child , and the translation into reality .
and if you haven &apos;t seen that in your business yet , you can be sure you &apos;re going to be .
in the course of this journey of discovery , i learned a lot .
i &apos;ve learned a lot about science . but i &apos;m sure you &apos;re thinking , a director has to be able to lead , be a leader like a ship captain or something .
i didn &apos;t understand much of leadership before i entered these expeditions .
because at a certain point , i had to say to myself , &quot; what am i doing here ?
why do i do that ? what &apos;s the point ? &quot;
these stupid films don &apos;t bring us any money .
we &apos;re going to play the cost of production . it &apos;s not a lane of fame .
everybody thinks i was in between &quot; titanic &quot; and &quot; avatar &quot; and would have walked away and celebrated the nails on a towel on a beach somewhere .
i made all these films , these documentary films , for a very small audience .
no fame , no honor , no money . what do you do ?
and what it does is it makes people go into business and ask that question .
you do it for the task of will -- and the ocean is the most challenging environment that you have . you do it for the explorer &apos;s sake , and because of the strange connection that comes out when a small group of people form a team .
because we did all this with just 10 to 12 people who worked uninterrupted for years , sometimes we were two to three months in a row on lake .
and in this community , you realize that the most important thing is the attention that you have in front of each other , because you &apos;ve done a task that you can &apos;t explain to anyone else .
if you go back to land and you say , &quot; we had to do it , the fiberglass , the sound weakness , and all the way around , the whole technology , and the difficulty , the human performance , if you &apos;re working on lake , &quot; you just can &apos;t explain the other one . that &apos;s like policemen or soldiers who have done something together and know that they can never explain it .
there &apos;s a connection , a mutual respect .
so when i came back to make my next film , &quot; avatar , &quot; i tried to apply the same leadership , which is that you respect your team and you deserve yourself in the opposite direction of respect .
it really changed the dynamics .
so again , i stood on a small team on unknown terrain , and we turned &quot; avatar &quot; with a new technology that didn &apos;t exist before .
incredibly exciting .
an enormous challenge .
now you know what the answer to this question is ?
and we became a real family for a four-and-a-half years .
and so my way of making films completely changed .
there were people who thought we &apos;d been doing really well and transporting these ocean creatures on the planet .
for me , it was more of a principle of doing my job , the actual process that changed as a result .
so what can we conclude from all this ?
what lessons did we learn ?
i think the first thing is curiosity .
it &apos;s the most powerful human property .
our imagination is a force that can actually create a reality .
and the attention of your team is more important than any lorbeer in the world .
the answer is &quot; no . &quot;
i have young filmmakers who say , &quot; give me a advice about how to do this . &quot;
and i say , &quot; don &apos;t confine yourself .
that &apos;s what other people get you . don &apos;t do it to yourself , don &apos;t hurt yourself . take risks . &quot;
nasa has a favorite sentence : &quot; failure is not an alternative . &quot;
but in art and in exploration , failure has to be an alternative , because it guarantees a trust .
no important endeavor that innovation required was ever taken without risk .
you have to be ready to take those risks .
that &apos;s the idea that i &apos;d like to leave you with . failure is an alternative , but fear is not . thank you .
today i &apos;m talking to you about energy and climate .
and this may be a little bit surprising , because my full-time job at the foundation is all about vaccines and seeds to provide the things that we need to invent and deliver to the poorest two billion a better life .
it &apos;s not possible to buy a cell phone that doesn &apos;t do too much .
but energy and climate are extremely important for these people , in fact , more important than anyone else on the planet .
climate degradation means that their seeds are not going to grow over many years , it &apos;s going to be too much or too little rain , and things are going to change in the way that their fragile environment cannot sustain .
that leads to starvation . it leads to uncertainty . it leads to unrest .
so , a climate change is going to be terrible for you .
and also , the energy cycle is very important to you .
in fact , if you could just go down from one thing to the price , to the poverty reduction would be far the most effective .
well , the energy cycle has fallen over time .
in fact , the progress society is based on energy advances .
coal-evolution pushed the industrial revolution , and even in the 20th century , there was a rapid case in the electric cycle , and so we have refrigerators , air conditioners , we can make modern materials and do so many things .
so we &apos;re in a wonderful situation with electricity in the rich world .
and yet , this horrible destiny actually happens to someone anywhere on earth , about every two weeks , because every two weeks , an older person dies and takes the last silver of an old language into the grave .
in other aspects of life that are much more significant than buying objects , the same explosion of choices is true .
but if we reduce the price -- let &apos;s cut the price in half -- let &apos;s hit a new barrier , and that barrier is related to co2 .
co2 warms the planet , and the equation for co2 is actually quite clear .
they &apos;re adding the exhausted co2 that leads to temperature elevation , and that increase in temperature has some very negative consequences . effects on the weather and perhaps worse , the indirect consequence that the natural ecosystems can &apos;t adapt to such rapid changes , and therefore whole systems collapse .
now , the exact correlation between a co2 rise and the resulting temperature change , and where the other consequences are , there are some ambiguity , but not very many .
and there &apos;s certainly ambiguity about how bad these consequences will be , but they will be extremely bad .
i asked the top scientists several times , &quot; do we really have to get down to zero ?
isn &apos;t it enough half or a quarter ? &quot;
the answer is , until we get close to zero , the temperature will continue to increase .
so it &apos;s a big challenge .
it &apos;s very different from saying , we have a 3.5 meter high truck that has to be under a three-meter bridge , and then you can kind of squeeze it underneath .
health care -- it &apos;s no longer the case in the united states that you go to the doctor and the doctor tells you what to do .
this has to go down to zero .
well , we &apos;re releasing a lot of carbon dioxide every year , over 26 billion tons .
every american is about 20 tons . people from poor countries , less than one .
on average , it &apos;s about five tons for everyone on the planet .
and somehow , we have to create changes that will reduce that to zero .
it &apos;s been up all the time .
just different economic changes have influenced it at all , and we need to go from rapidly to reducing and reducing to zero .
this equation has four factors . a little bit multiplication . you have this thing on the left -- co2 that you want to get to zero , and that &apos;s going to depend on the number of people , on the service of the services that every person uses on average , on average , the average energy for every service and co2 that &apos;s emitted per unit of energy .
so let &apos;s look at each factor and think about how we get that to zero .
probably one of these numbers has to get very close to zero .
instead , you go to the doctor , and the doctor tells you , we could do a or we could do b .
now this is basic algebra , but let &apos;s go through it .
first , we have the population .
today , 6.8 billion people live .
and it &apos;s moving to nine billion . it &apos;s moving to nine billion .
if we &apos;re very successful with new vaccines , health care and reproduction medicine , we might be able to reduce that by 10 to 15 percent , but right now we see a slope by 1.3 .
the second factor is the services we use .
that includes everything , the food we eat , clothing , television , heating .
these are very good things and poverty reduction means making these services available to almost everyone on the planet .
it &apos;s great that this number is rising .
in the rich world , in the upper billion , we might be able to strike and use less , but on average , that number will go up every year , and therefore , more than doubling , the number of services that are provided per person .
a has these benefits and risks .
here &apos;s a very basic service . is there light at home so you can read the homework ?
and these students don &apos;t have it , so they go out and read their school assignments under the street .
well , in efficiency , the e , the energy per service , there &apos;s finally good news .
we have something that doesn &apos;t go up .
because of various successes in the light sector , through other autotypes , through new ways of building houses , there are many services where some individual services are decreased by 90 percent .
in other services like making fertilizers , 105 : 05 : 56,000 -- &amp; lt ; 00 : 05 : 58,000 or air traffic or air traffic , the playground for improvement is much smaller .
in total , if we &apos;re optimistic , we might get a reduction by a factor three , or maybe even by a factor six .
but in the first three factors , we &apos;ve gone from 26 billion to maybe the best 13 billion tons , and that &apos;s just not enough .
so let &apos;s look at the fourth factor -- and this will be a key factor -- that &apos;s the amount of co2 that &apos;s emitted per unit of energy .
it &apos;s a question of if you can get that to zero .
b has these benefits and risks . what do you want to do ?
if you burn coal , no .
if you burn natural gas , no .
almost every manufacturing method for electricity today emitts co2 , except for renewables and nuclear energy .
so what we need to do at a global level is create a new system .
we need energy miracles .
now , when i use the term &quot; miracle , &quot; i don &apos;t mean the impossible .
the microprocessor is a miracle . the pc is a miracle .
the internet and the service is a miracle .
people here have contributed to the development of many of these miracles .
usually , there &apos;s no deadline that you need a miracle to a particular date .
and they say , &quot; doctor , what should i do ? &quot;
usually you &apos;re just wrong , and some of you are not .
but in this case , we have to give full gas and get a miracle in a very short time .
well , i wondered , how can i really get this over ?
is there a natural illustration , a demonstration that sparks the idea of people here ?
i remembered last year when i brought mosquitos and somehow people liked that .
the idea became really tangible for them , you know , there are people who live with mosquitos .
for energy , this is what i came up with .
i decided that leaving light cubes would be here my year contribution to the environment .
so here are some natural fireflies .
i was assured that they &apos;re not going to bite . in fact , they &apos;re not even going to leave the glass .
the doctor says a has these benefits and risks and b has these benefits and risk .
well , there are all kinds of game solutions like this , but they don &apos;t get much .
we need solutions , either one or two , that have an incredible scaling and unimaginable reliability , and even though there are many directions where people are looking for it , i really see only five that can afford these big demands .
i &apos;ve left out geothermal , fusion and biofuels .
they may have a modern contribution , and if they do better than i expect , that would be great , but my core statement here is that we need to work on all those five , and we can &apos;t give up any of them because they &apos;re intimidating us , because everyone has significant problems .
let &apos;s first look at burning fossil fuels , burning either coal or natural gas .
what you have to do there may seem simple , but it &apos;s not . you have to capture all the co2 that comes out of the chimneys after burning out of the chimneys , liquid pressure , and then store somewhere and hope it will stay there .
there are some pilot projects that can do this at a 60 percent -- 80 percent level , but getting it to 100 percent of the time will be very difficult , and getting an agreement for the storage of co2 is a big challenge , but the biggest problem here is the storage question .
who &apos;s going to make it safe ?
who can guarantee something that literally , many billions of times larger than any kind of waste you can imagine of nuclear and other things ?
that &apos;s a lot of volume .
what do you want to do ?
so this is a hard nose .
next , nuclear energy .
it also has three big problems . the cost , especially in high-regulated countries , is high . the question of security is that you really feel that nothing can go wrong , despite the human work that the fuel is not being used for weapons .
and then what do you do with the waste ?
because even though it &apos;s not very big , there &apos;s a lot of concerns .
so three very difficult problems that might be solvable , and that &apos;s why you should work on it .
i summarized the last three of the five .
it &apos;s the renewables , as they &apos;re often called .
and they also have -- although they &apos;re great , they don &apos;t need a fuel -- they have some disadvantages .
one is the energy density that these technologies generate dramatically lower than the power plants .
and if you said , &quot; if you were me , doctor , what would you do ? &quot;
these are energy fields , you &apos;re talking about many square kilometers , a thousand times more area than a normal power plant .
and also , these sources are underlying interruptions .
the sun doesn &apos;t shine all day , it doesn &apos;t seem every day , and the wind doesn &apos;t keep blowing all the time .
that &apos;s why , if you &apos;re dependent on these sources , you have to have a way to get the energy even if it &apos;s not available .
so there are big cost challenges here . there are challenges in transmission . if we say , for example , the energy source is outside the country , you don &apos;t just need the technology , you also need to deal with the risk of the energy coming from where else .
and there &apos;s the storage problem .
and to show the dimension , i looked at all kinds of batteries that are made : the cars , computers , cell phones , flashlights , for everything , and i compared that to the amount of electronic energy that the world uses , and i found that all the batteries that we &apos;re now producing could store less than 10 minutes of total energy .
so we need a big breakthrough here , something that will be a factor of 100 better than the approaches at the moment .
it &apos;s not impossible , but it &apos;s not that easy .
this is what happens when you try to bring these interrupted sources over 20 percent -- 30 percent of the consumption .
the doctor says , &quot; but i &apos;m not you . &quot;
if you want to stay on it by 100 percent , you need an incredible miracle battery .
now , where should we go ? what &apos;s the right approach ?
a manhattan project ? how do we get there ?
what we need is a lot of companies working on this . hundreds .
in each of these five , we need at least 100 people .
many of you will say , they &apos;re crazy ! that &apos;s good .
i think there are a lot of people here in the ted group who are already engaged there .
bill gross has several companies , among other things called esolar , who have great solar thermal technologies .
vinod khosla is investing in dozens of companies who do great things and have interesting opportunities , and i &apos;m trying to support that .
nathan myhrvold and i finance a company that , perhaps surprisingly , tracks the nuclear approach .
and i know some of you say , &quot; isn &apos;t it better ? &quot; the world wouldn &apos;t be a better place if we were all talking one language ? &quot; and i say , &quot; well , let this language be yoruba . let it be cannic .
the result is -- we call it &quot; patients autonomy . &quot; it sounds like a good thing , but in reality , a shift in the burden of responsibility for making decisions from someone who knows something -- namely the doctor -- to someone who knows nothing and is most likely sick , and therefore not in the best constitution is to make a decision -- namely the patient .
there are some innovations in the nuclear field ; modular , liquid .
the development has stopped in this industry a while ago , so it &apos;s not a great surprise that some good concepts are around .
the terrapowers concept means that instead of a part of the uranium , the one percent , the u235 , we decided to burn the 99 percent , the u238 .
that &apos;s a pretty crazy idea .
but in fact , you &apos;ve been thinking about it for a long time , but you &apos;ve never been able to simulate reasonably whether it would work , but since there &apos;s modern supercomputers , you can simulate it , and you can see that , yes ! with the right approach of materials , it looks like it works .
and because you burn that 99 percent , the cost profile is much better .
in fact , you burn the waste , and you can actually use the waste of today &apos;s reactors as a fuel fuel .
instead of breaking your head over it , you just burn it . a great thing .
the uranium is being used gradually , a little bit like a candle .
you can see that it &apos;s a kind of column , often called a &quot; walking wave &quot; reactor .
there &apos;s an enormous marketing for prescription drugs for people like you and me , which , if you think about it , doesn &apos;t make any sense at all , because we don &apos;t buy it .
that really solves the fuel problem .
here &apos;s a picture of a place in kentucky .
that &apos;s the waste , the 99 percent . you have the part that &apos;s being burned today , so it &apos;s called used uranium .
this is what drives the u.s. for hundreds of years .
and if you take oceanic water and just film it , you get enough fuel for the rest of the planet &apos;s life .
you know , there are many challenges , but it &apos;s an example of many hundreds of concepts that we need to get forward .
let &apos;s think about how we should measure our success .
what should our testimony look like ?
well , let &apos;s go to the goal that we have to reach , and then we talk about the intermediate step .
a lot of people talk about an 80 percent reduction by 2050 .
why are they advertising around us if we can &apos;t buy ?
it &apos;s really , really important that we get there .
the rest of the 20 percent will be produced in poor countries , and still some agriculture , and hopefully whale threat and cement will be clean until then .
so , in order to achieve this 80 percent , the developed world , including countries like china , has to completely reframe its electricity generation .
the other note is whether we &apos;re using zero-emission technology , whether it &apos;s used in all developed countries , and we &apos;re on the way to get them to the rest of it .
that &apos;s terribly important .
that &apos;s going to be a key element of this testimony .
if we go back from there , what should that look like in 2020 ?
it should contain the two elements again .
we should use the effectiveness measures to get reduction , the less we &apos;re emitting , the less the carbon sum will be and the temperature will be .
but in fact , this note for the things that we do that don &apos;t completely lead to the big reductions , just the same , or even less important as the others that are the speed of innovation for these breakthroughs .
the answer is , they expect us to call the doctor the next morning and ask for a change in prescription .
we have to follow these breakthroughs with whole gas , and we can measure this : in corporate numbers , in pilot projects and regulation changes .
there are a lot of great books on this topic .
the al gore book &quot; we have the choice &quot; and david mckays &quot; sustainable energy without the hot air . &quot;
they really go through it , and they create a framework where this can be discussed , because we need support from all sides .
there are some things that need to come together .
that &apos;s a wish .
a very concrete wish that we invent this technology .
if you just gave me one wish for the next 50 years , i could choose the president , a vaccine , and i love that , or i could choose that wish , which is , half-energy cycle without co2 is going to come up with that wish .
this has the biggest impact .
if we don &apos;t get that wish , the trench between the long-term and the short-term people will be horrible between the united states and china , between poor and rich countries , and almost all of those two billion lives will be much worse .
something as profound as our identity is now a question of how this slide is supposed to show .
so what do we need to do ?
what kind of action do i appeal to ?
we need to go into more research funding .
when countries come together in places like coppenhagen , they shouldn &apos;t just talk about co2 .
you should discuss this innovation strategy , and you would be shocked by the ridiculous money spent on these innovative approaches .
we need market stimulus , carbon taxes , cap &amp; amp ; trade , something that creates a price signal .
we need to spread the message .
we need to have dialogue more rational and more complete and also the things that are done by the government .
it &apos;s an important wish , but i think we can fulfill it .
thank you .
we don &apos;t inherit identity , we invent it .
thank you .
thank you . thank you .
thank you very much . just to understand terrapower a little bit better -- first of all , can you give us an idea of the scale of this investment ?
bill gates : to do the simulation on a supercomputer , to get all the great scientists what we &apos;ve done , we only need a few 10 million . and even if we &apos;ve tested our materials in a russian reactor to make sure it works reasonably , you &apos;re only in the 1000s million .
the hard step is to build the first reactor , to find another billion , the regularities and the place that actually builds the first one .
once the first one is done , when it &apos;s finished , it &apos;s as promised , it &apos;s very clear , because the economy , the energy density , is as different from nuclear energy as we know it .
to understand that , that means to build deep in the ground , almost like a vertical column of nuclear fuel , this consumed uranium , and then the process on top , and then it continues to work down ?
bg : exactly . you &apos;ve got to refill the reactor all the time , so there &apos;s a lot of people and a lot of controls that can go wrong . this thing where you open it up and put things in -- or out . it &apos;s not good !
but if you have very cheap fuel , you can fill it for 60 years -- think of a column -- that they buried , without all the complexity .
and it &apos;s sitting there and burning for 60 years , and then it &apos;s done .
and we often reinvent ourselves as much as we want .
a nuclear reactor that provides a solution to the waste itself .
bg : yeah . well , what happens to the garbage is you can let it sit -- there &apos;s a lot less waste with this method -- then you take it and you put it in the next reactor , and you keep burning it .
and we start by taking the waste that exists already , which is in these refrigerators or dry containers in the reactors . that &apos;s our starting fuel .
so what these reactors were a problem with , which is what we fill in our fillings , and with that , the waste volume is dramatically reduced during this process .
but as you &apos;ve been talking to different people in the world about these possibilities .
where is the biggest interest in actually implementing this ?
bg : well , we haven &apos;t yet found ourselves in a place , and there &apos;s a lot of interesting rules of revelation for everything that &apos;s called &quot; nuclear . &quot; there &apos;s a lot of interest , and the people of the company were in russia , india , china ... i was here , and i met the energy minister , and i talked about how this fits to the energy agenda .
i &apos;m optimistic . you know , the french and japanese did something along the way .
this is a version of a thing that was made .
this is an important step forward , but it &apos;s like a faster reactor , and some countries have built it , so anyone who has implemented a fast reactor is a candidate for our first .
that means every day , if you wake up in the morning , you have to decide what kind of person you want to be .
in your mind , time frame and probability of creating something like this really ?
bg : now we need one of these scalable , electricity generating things that are very cheap , we have 20 years to invent and then 20 years to use .
this is kind of the deadline that showed us the environmental models that we need to hold .
and , you know , terrapower , if everything &apos;s going well , and that &apos;s a big wish , could keep it easy .
and luckily , there are dozens of companies today , and we need hundreds that , just as their approaches work , can provide the funding for their pilots .
and it would be the best way to do it , because then you could use a mixture .
anyway , we need a solution .
so , in terms of the great possible breakthroughs , is this the biggest thing you know ?
bg : a breakthrough of energy is the most important .
it would have been without the environmental demand , but it makes it so much more important .
in terms of marriage and family , there was a time when the standard assumption was that almost everybody had one and they got married as fast as they could , and then they got kids as quickly as they could .
in the nuclear sector , there are other innovative companies .
you know , we don &apos;t know their work as well as this , but there &apos;s the modular method , that &apos;s a different approach .
there &apos;s a liquid reactor type that seems a little bit difficult , but they might say that about us .
and so there are different , but the nice thing about this is that a uranium molecule has a million times as much energy as a , say , a coal molecule , and therefore , if you can deal with the problems , and they &apos;re mostly the radiation , the footprint and the cost , the potential , the impact on the country and other things , almost in a league .
if that doesn &apos;t work , what ?
do we need to bring in emergency measures to try to keep the temperature stable ?
bg : when you get into this situation , it &apos;s like you &apos;ve eaten too much , and you &apos;re about to have a heart attack . what do you do ? you might need a heart surgery or something .
there &apos;s a research line called geoengineering , which is focused on various techniques to delay global warming , so that we could get 20 or 30 years longer to get together .
that &apos;s just a way of insurance .
you hope we don &apos;t need that .
the only real choice was &quot; who , &quot; not when , and not what they did after that .
some people say you shouldn &apos;t work at all on insurance because you might be doing it lazy , so you keep eating , because you know you &apos;re going to save your heart surgery .
i don &apos;t know if that &apos;s smart , if you look at the importance of this problem , but there &apos;s a discourse in geoengineering about whether you should have that , if things come faster , or that innovation takes longer than we expect .
climate change scientists : do you have one or two sentences for those to maybe convince you ?
bg : well , unfortunately , the skeptics live in very different camps .
those who make scientific arguments are very little .
do you say that there are negative impacts that have to do with clouds that are changing things ?
there are very , very few things that you can even say , of which there is a chance in a million .
the main problem here is similar to aids .
you make the mistake now , and you pay a lot later .
and so the idea is , now , if you have all kinds of urgent problems to invest in something that you have only later -- and the investment is not so clear . in fact , the ipcc report is not necessarily the worst scenario , and there are people in the rich world who look at ipcc and say , okay , that &apos;s not a big drama .
let &apos;s be &quot; i . &quot;
today , everything is easy to have .
the fact is that this uncertainty should be worried about us .
but my dream here is that if you can do it economically , and at the same time , the skeptics say , &quot; okay , i &apos;m not interested in it not emitting co2 , i almost wish it did , but i &apos;m going to accept it because it &apos;s cheaper than the previous method . &quot;
and that would be your answer to the bjordn lomborg argument that if you use all this time and energy to solve the co2 problem , all the other goals suffer from it , the poverty reduction , the reduction of malaria and so on , that there &apos;s a dumb waste of resources to invest money , while there are better things we can do .
bg : well , the actual spending on research -- let &apos;s say the u.s. should spend 10 billion more per year than they do today -- that &apos;s not so dramatic .
other things should not suffer .
you get too big money , and here you can disagree with reasonable people if you have something that &apos;s not economic , and you &apos;re trying to finance that . for me , most of the waste is happening .
unless you &apos;re very short of a cost breakthrough , and you &apos;re just funding the learning curve , and i think we should try more things that have the potential to be much cheaper .
if the deadline you get is a very high energy cycle , then only the rich can keep up .
i mean , each of us here could spend five times as much on our energy without changing its lifestyle .
but for the bottom two billion , it &apos;s a disaster .
i teach wonderful intelligent students , and i give them 20 percent less work than i used to do .
and even lomborg thinks about it .
now his new stomach is , &quot; why is research not going to be discussed ? &quot;
he &apos;s still associated with , because of his earlier stories , the skeptic camp , but he understood that this is a very lonely group , and so now he makes the research argument .
and this is a thought that i think is appropriate .
the research , it &apos;s just crazy how little it &apos;s supported .
bill , i think i &apos;m speaking for almost all people here , when i say , i really hope your wish will be true . thank you very much .
bg : thank you .
a few years ago , here at ted , peter skillman introduced a design competition called &quot; the marshmallow challenge . &quot;
the idea is pretty simple . four teams have to build the largest open structure with 20 spaghetti , about a meter tape , about a meter of thread and a marshmallow .
the marshmallow has to be on top .
and that &apos;s not because they &apos;re less smart , not because they &apos;re less careful .
and , although it seems really easy , it &apos;s actually really hard , because it urges people to work very quickly .
and so i thought this was an interesting idea , and i turned it into a design workshop .
it was a huge success .
since then , i &apos;ve done about 70 workshops around the world , with students , developers and architects , even ctos of fortune 50-company , and there &apos;s something about this task that makes deep impressions into the nature of collaboration , and i want to share some of them with you .
usually most people start to orient themselves on the task .
they &apos;re talking about what it &apos;s going to look like , they &apos;re borrowing around power .
then they invest a little bit of time in planning and organization . they sketch and they lay out spaghetti .
they spend a lot of their time in the assembly of growing structures .
and finally , just before you have time , somebody takes the marshmallow and you put it carefully on the top , step back and &quot; ta-da &quot; -- admire your work .
but what happens , almost always , is that the ta-da becomes a &quot; uh-oh , &quot; because the weight of the marshmallows is that the whole thing is defeating and falling .
it &apos;s because they &apos;re engaged in other things , they &apos;re asking themselves , &quot; should i marry or not ? should i marry now ?
there are a series of people who have much more &quot; uh-oh &quot; moments than others , and among the worst are fresh bwl graduates .
they lie , they cheat , they &apos;re confused , and they produce really , really poor shapes .
and of course , there are teams who have a lot more ta-da , and among the best are fresh alumni of kindergarten .
and that &apos;s pretty amazing .
as peter told us , they not only produce the highest towers , but also the most interesting structures of all .
what you might be asking is : how does that come ? why ? what about those ?
and peter says , &quot; none of the kids spend time being the head of the spaghetti gmbh . &quot;
they don &apos;t spend time in power fights .
but there &apos;s another reason .
and that is that bwl students were trained to find the right plan , ok !
should i marry later ? should i have children first , or should i have a career ? &quot;
and then realizing it .
what happens when you put the marshmallow on the top , you don &apos;t have time , and what happens ?
it &apos;s a crisis .
sounds familiar , what ?
what kindergarten kids do is they start with the marshmallow and build prototypes , successful prototypes , always with the marshmallow at the top , so that they have the opportunity to repair badly prototypes .
constructors recognize this kind of collaboration as the core of an iterative process .
and every attempt , the children get instant feedback about what works and what doesn &apos;t work .
so the performance of working with prototypes is essential -- but let &apos;s see how different teams are acting .
the average for most people is about half an inch , bwl students are creating half of them , lawyers are a little bit more , but not much , child gardening children are better than adults .
who &apos;s the most successful ?
these are all engaging questions .
architects and engineers , luckily .
one meter is the highest thing i &apos;ve seen .
and why ? because they understand triangles and self-reinforcing geometric patterns are the key to building stable structures .
ceos is a little bit about average . but this is where it gets interesting .
if you put an executive administrator on the team , they get significantly better .
it &apos;s incredible . you look around and you see , &quot; this team will win . &quot;
you can predict that . why is this going on ?
because they have special skills of the process companion .
they lead the process , they understand it .
and that team that &apos;s going to govern and pay attention to the work will significantly improve the performance of the team .
and you &apos;re going to answer these questions regardless of whether that means doing all the tasks that i &apos;m admitting you and not getting a good note in my course .
specialized skills and processing skills and their combination lead to success .
if you have 10 teams that are typical , you get about six that have stable structures .
so i tried something exciting .
i thought we &apos;d bring the poker deployment in the same way .
so i offered a $ 100,000 prize to software for the winners .
what do you think happened to these design students ?
what was the result ?
this is what happened . not a team had a stable structure .
if anyone had built a two-inch construction , they would have carried the price home .
so isn &apos;t it interesting that high competitions have a strong effect ?
and in fact , you should do that . these are important questions to answer .
we repeated this practice with the same students .
so what do you think happened ?
now they understood the advantage of prototyping .
so the same bad team of one under the best .
they produced the highest construction in the least time .
so there are deep lessons for us , about the nature of drive and success .
you might ask : why would somebody actually spend time creating a marshmallow challenge ?
the reason is , i &apos;m helping create digital tools and processes to help teams create cars , video games and visual effects .
and what the marshmallow challenge does is it helps them identify hidden assumptions .
because frankly , every project has its own marshmallow .
work -- we &apos;re blessed , as carl pointed out , with the technology that allows us to work every minute from every place on the planet every day -- except for the randolph hotel .
the challenge is to have a common experience , a common language , or basic , to build the right prototype .
and this is the value of this experience , this simple exercise .
and those of you who are interested in it can go to marshmallowchallenge.com .
it &apos;s a blog where you see how to build the marshmallows .
there &apos;s a step-by-step guidance there .
they find crazy examples from all over the world of people optimizing and refining the system .
there are world record as well .
and the basic lesson , i think , is that construction is actually a connecting sport .
it requires that we all focus our senses on the task , and that we use our thinking optimally , like our emotions and our doing , in the challenge that we face .
and sometimes a little prototype of this experience is all it takes to get us from a &quot; uh-oh &quot; moment to a &quot; ta-da .
there &apos;s a corner , by the way , that i &apos;m not going to tell you about , where the wirelesslan works .
and that can make a big difference .
thank you .
let &apos;s pretend that we have a machine here .
a big machine , a cool , ted machine , and this is a time machine .
and everyone in this room has to go in .
and you can go to the past , you can go to the future ; you can &apos;t stay in here and now .
and i wonder what they would choose , because i asked my friends a lot of the question recently , and they all wanted to go to the past .
i don &apos;t know . they wanted to go back to time before there was cars or twitter or &quot; america is looking for the superstar . &quot;
i don &apos;t know .
i &apos;m convinced that you &apos;re kind of drawn to nostalgia , to wonder .
and then you would suddenly realize what it would be like if you couldn &apos;t speak your own language .
i &apos;m not going to tell you , because i want to use it .
and that &apos;s what i understand .
i &apos;m not part of this group , i have to say .
i don &apos;t want to go into the past , and that &apos;s not because i &apos;m an adventurer .
it &apos;s because opportunities don &apos;t go back on this planet , they go forward .
so i want to go into this machine , and i want to go into the future .
this is the greatest time that we &apos;ve ever had on this planet , no matter what scale you put : health , wealth , mobility , opportunities , declining disease .
there was never a time before like this .
my great-grandparents died when they were 60 .
my grandparents pushed this number to 70 .
my parents are the 80 on the heel .
so what it means is that incredible freedom of choice we have to make decisions about work , over and over again , whether we should work or not work .
so there should be a nine at the beginning of my death rate .
but it &apos;s not even about people like us , because this is a bigger thing than that .
a child born in new delhi today can expect to live as long as the richest man in the world 100 years ago .
think about it . that &apos;s an incredible fact .
and why is that ?
smallpox . smallpox killed billions of people on this planet .
they &apos;ve reformed the demographics of the earth in a way that no war has ever done .
they &apos;re gone . they &apos;re gone .
we forced them . puff .
in the rich world , there are diseases that have threatened millions of us just one generation ago , hardly yet .
we can watch our kids play football , and we have our cell phone on the one hip , and our blackberry on the other hip , and our laptop probably on our lap .
diphtery , root , child paralysis ...
does anybody know what that is ?
vaccines , modern medicine , our ability to feed billions of people , these are successes of scientific method .
and in my view , the scientific method is to try things out , see if it works , change it if it doesn &apos;t , one of the greatest achievements in humanity .
so that &apos;s the good news .
unfortunately , that &apos;s the whole good news , because there are a few other problems , and they &apos;ve been mentioned a lot .
and one of them is that , despite all our achievements , a billion people in the world go to bed hungry every day .
that number goes up , and it goes up very quickly , and that &apos;s embarrassing .
and not only that , we &apos;ve used our imagination to devastating this world thoroughly .
drinking water , urchable land , rainforests , oil , gas : they disappear , and soon , and if we don &apos;t innovate out of this chaos , we also disappear .
and even if you &apos;re all turned off , every minute we &apos;re watching our child mutilate a football game , we &apos;re also asking ourselves , &quot; should i accept this call ?
so the question is : can we do that ? i think so .
i think it &apos;s clear that we can produce food that will feed billions of people without raping the country that they live on .
i think we can power this world that doesn &apos;t destroy it at the same time .
i really believe that , and no , that &apos;s not a wishing thought .
but this keeps me awake at night -- one of the things that keeps me awake at night -- we &apos;ve never needed scientific progress as much as now , never before .
and we &apos;ve never been able to use it properly , as we can today .
we &apos;re on the verge of amazing , amazing events in many areas , and yet i really think that we need to go back hundreds , 300 years before the enlightenment to find a time when we &apos;ve been struggling for progress , where we &apos;ve driven over these things to more fronts than now .
people are wrapping up in their beliefs , and it &apos;s so tight that you can &apos;t free them .
not even the truth will liberate it .
and listen , everybody has a right to their opinion ; even a right to their opinion of progress .
should i respond to this email ? should i write this letter ? &quot;
but you know what they &apos;re not right about ?
they don &apos;t have a right to their own facts . &apos; &quot; sorry , they don &apos;t have a right .
and it took me a while to figure that out .
about a decade ago , i wrote an article on vaccinations for &quot; the new yorker , &quot; a little article .
and i was amazed to come across resistance , resistance to what is ultimately the most effective thing in health care history .
i didn &apos;t know what to do , so i just did what i always do , i wrote an article and i went on .
and soon after that , i wrote an article on genetically engineered food .
the same thing , just bigger .
people were playing crazy .
so i also wrote an article about this , and i couldn &apos;t understand why people thought that was &quot; frankenfood , &quot; why they thought that molecules were shooting around in a certain way , rather than a random way , a handle on nature .
and even though the answer to the question &quot; no , &quot; it &apos;s certainly going to affect your experience of the football game of your child very different than it would have been .
but you know , i do what i do . i wrote the article , i kept on going .
i mean , i &apos;m a journalist .
we type in , we get rich , we go to food , that &apos;s okay .
but these articles were worried to me , and i couldn &apos;t figure out why , and i finally figured it out .
and that &apos;s because these fanatics who made me crazy were not fanatics at all .
these were thoughtful people , educated people , decent people .
they were just like the people in this room .
and that got me so confused ...
but then i thought , you know what , let &apos;s face it .
we &apos;ve come to a point where we don &apos;t have the same relationship to progress as we used to .
everywhere we look , big things and small things , material things and lifestyle , life is a question of choice .
we &apos;re talking about it twenty .
we &apos;re talking about it ironically , with little guidelines about &quot; progress . &quot;
okay , there are reasons for that , and i think we know what the reasons are .
we &apos;ve lost trust in institutions , in authority , and sometimes in science itself , and there &apos;s no reason why it shouldn &apos;t be .
you can just call some names and people will understand .
chernobyl , bhopal , the challenger , vioxx , weapons of mass destruction , the u.s. presidential election in 2000 .
i mean , you know , you can choose your own list .
there are questions and problems with the people that we thought were always right . so be skeptical .
ask , ask , demand evidence , demand evidence .
take nothing but for granted .
and the world that we lived in looked like this .
but here &apos;s the thing : if you get evidence , you have to take this evidence , and we &apos;re not good at it .
and i can say that for the reason that we now live in an epidemic of fear , as i &apos;ve never seen it , and hopefully will never see it again .
about 12 years ago , a story was published , a terrible story that connected the autism epidemic to the masers , mumps , and rotels vaccine .
very frightening .
so , studies were conducted to see if that was true .
so , studies should be done ; that &apos;s a serious issue .
the data came in .
the data came in from the united states , from england , from sweden , from canada , and they were all the same , no correlation , no connection , no connection .
it doesn &apos;t make any difference . it doesn &apos;t make any difference because we believe in anecdotes , we believe what we see , what we think we see , what makes us feel real .
we don &apos;t believe in a bunch of documents from a government member who gives us data , and i understand that , i think , we all do .
so i want to say , there were some choices , but not everything was a question of choice .
but you know what ?
the result of that was catastrophic .
catastrophic because of this fact : the united states is one of the only countries in the world where the vaccinators are falling for masers .
this is scandalous , and we should be ashamed .
it &apos;s terrible .
what happened is that we could do that .
well , i understand that . i do .
because does anybody here have masses ?
has a single person in the audience ever seen anyone die of masses ?
don &apos;t happen very often .
and the world that we live in now looks like this .
don &apos;t happen at all in this country , but 160,000 times in the world last year .
that &apos;s a lot of deaths from masers , 20 an hour .
but because that hasn &apos;t happened here , we can displace it , and people like jenny mccarthy can walk around and offer messages of fear and illiteracy from platforms like oprah and larry king preach live .
and they can do that because they don &apos;t connect cause and correlation .
they don &apos;t understand that these things seem to be the same , but they &apos;re almost never the same .
and this is something we need to learn , very quickly .
this guy was a hero , jonas salk .
he liberated us from one of humanity &apos;s worst spirits .
no fear , no excruciating , no child paralysis , no puff , disappeared .
the guy in the middle is not so much .
so today , i want to take you on a journey through the ethnosphere , a short journey through the ethnosphere , to try to make you understand what actually has been lost .
and the question is , is that good news or bad news ?
it &apos;s called paul offit .
he &apos;s just developed a rotavirus-vaccine with a few other people .
he can save the lives of 4,000-plus , 500,000 children a year in the developing world .
pretty good , right ?
well , that &apos;s good , besides paul walking around and talking about vaccines and saying how valuable they are , and people should just stop complaining .
and that &apos;s what he &apos;s actually saying .
so paul is a terrorist .
when paul talks in a public hearing , he can &apos;t say without armed guards .
he gets calls at home because people like to tell him that they know where his kids go to school .
and why ? because paul made a vaccine .
the answer is yes .
i don &apos;t need to say that , but vaccines are essential .
if you take them away , go back to the diseases , terrible diseases , and that &apos;s what &apos;s going on .
we have masers in this country now .
and that gets worse , and pretty soon , children will die again , because that &apos;s just a question of numbers .
and they &apos;re not just going to die of masers .
what about child paralysis ? let &apos;s take that . why not ?
a commander of mine wrote me a few weeks ago , and she said , &quot; i think i &apos;m a little shrimp . &quot;
no one has ever said that before .
she wouldn &apos;t vaccinate her child against child paralysis . no way .
fine .
we all know what &apos;s good about it , so i &apos;m going to talk about what &apos;s bad about it .
why ? because we don &apos;t have child paralysis . and you know what ?
we didn &apos;t have childhood paralysis in this country yesterday .
today , i don &apos;t know , maybe somebody in lagos this morning went on an airplane , and they &apos;re flying to los angeles , right now they &apos;re over ohio .
and in a few hours , he ends up renting a car , and he comes to long beach , and he &apos;s going to visit one of these amazing ted dinner tonight .
and he doesn &apos;t know that he &apos;s infected with a paralyzing disease , and we don &apos;t know , because that &apos;s how the world works .
this is the planet that we live on . don &apos;t pretend it &apos;s not .
we love to wrap ourselves up in lies . we love that .
did you all take your vitamins this morning ?
echinacea , a little antioxidantium that helps you jump .
i know you &apos;ve done that because half of americans do that every day .
all of these choices have two effects , two negative effects on people .
they take the stuff , and they take alternative cure , and it doesn &apos;t make any difference how often we find that they &apos;re useless .
the data is all the time .
they evaporate their urine . they almost never do .
that &apos;s okay , you &apos;d like to pay 28 billion dollars for dark urine .
i totally agree with you .
dark urine . dark .
why do we do that ? why do we do that ?
well , i think i understand -- we hate the pharmaceutical industry .
we hate a too strong government . we have no trust in the system .
and we shouldn &apos;t . our health care system is mies .
one effect , paradoxically , is that it &apos;s paralyzed instead of liberating .
it &apos;s cruel to millions of people .
it &apos;s absolutely awesome and soul to ourselves , who can afford it .
so we &apos;re going away from that , and where are we going ?
we go to the poor of the placebo industry .
that &apos;s great . i love the placebo industry .
but you know , this is really a serious issue , because the stuff is crap , and we spend billions of dollars on it .
and i have all kinds of little props here .
none of them -- gingko , fraud , echinacea , fraud , acai , i don &apos;t even know what that is , but we spend billions of dollars on it , it &apos;s fraud .
and you know what ? when i say that , people scream at me and say , &quot; what do you care about ? let people do what they want .
that &apos;s how you feel good . &quot;
with so many options you can choose , people are very hard to even decide .
and you know what ? they &apos;re wrong .
because i don &apos;t care if it &apos;s the minister of health who says , &quot; well , i &apos;m not going to take the evidence of my experts on mammography , &quot; or any cancer-quality salver who wants to treat his patients with caffs .
if you go on this path , where belief and magic replace evidence and science , you get to a place where you don &apos;t want to be .
they get to thabo mbeki in south africa .
he killed 400,000 of his people because he insisted that red beds , bone belly and lemon oil are much more effective than antiretroviral drugs that we know can break the course of aids .
hundreds of thousands of unnecessary deaths in one country , which is worse than any other from this disease .
don &apos;t tell me that these things don &apos;t have consequences .
they have them . they always have them .
now , the most brainless epidemic that we &apos;re in right now is this absurd struggle between the proponents of genetically modified foods and the bio-elite .
this is an idiotic debate . it has to stop .
i &apos;m going to give you another dramatic example of this , a study of investments in volunteer aging .
it &apos;s a debate about words , about metaphors .
this is ideology , not science .
everything we eat , every rice cake , every branch of petersily , every rose coal , has been changed by people .
you know , there were no mandarins in paradise .
there were no cantaloupe-melons .
there were no christmas trees . we did all this .
we &apos;ve done it in the last 11,000 years .
and some of it worked and some of it didn &apos;t .
we got rid of what didn &apos;t work .
now we can make it more precise . and of course there are risks , but we can do something like vitamin a in rice , and the stuff can help millions of people to extend their lives .
a colleague of mine had access to investment from vanguard , the giant fund society of about a million employees and about 2,000 different jobs .
you don &apos;t want to do that ?
i have to say , i don &apos;t understand that .
we reject genetically engineered food .
why do we do that ?
well , what i hear all the time is too many chemicals , pesticides , hormones , monoculture , we don &apos;t want huge fields with one thing , that &apos;s wrong .
we don &apos;t want companies to patent lives .
we don &apos;t want companies to have seeds .
and you know what my answer to all this is ?
yes , you &apos;re right . let &apos;s fix that .
it &apos;s true , we have a huge food problem , but that &apos;s not science .
and what she found was per 10 investment fund that the employer offered , took the participation by two percent .
this has nothing to do with science .
it &apos;s right , morality , patent stuff .
you know , science is not a company .
it &apos;s not a country .
it &apos;s not even an idea ; it &apos;s a process .
it &apos;s a process , and sometimes it works and sometimes it doesn &apos;t , but the idea that we shouldn &apos;t allow science to do their work , because we &apos;re afraid is a real dead end , and it keeps millions of people from blooming .
you know , in the next 50 years , we &apos;re going to have to grow 70 percent more food than we are right now . 70 percent .
this investment in africa over the last 30 years .
shame . shame .
you need that , and we don &apos;t give it to you .
they offer 50 investment fund -- 10 percent less employees participate than if they were just providing five . why ?
and why ? genetically modified food .
we don &apos;t want to encourage people to eat this rotten stuff , like maniok .
maniok is something that half a billion people eat .
it &apos;s kind of like a potato .
it &apos;s just a bunch of calories . it &apos;s mies .
it has no nutrients , it has no protein , and scientists are building all that in it right now .
and then people could eat the food and wouldn &apos;t get blind .
you wouldn &apos;t starve , and you know what ?
that would be nice . it wouldn &apos;t be chez panisse , but it would be beautiful .
and all i can say about this is , why do we fight this ?
we &apos;re all born . we &apos;re bringing children to the world .
now there are some of us who sort of forget that when i say , &quot; different possibilities of being , &quot; really different possibilities of being .
because it &apos;s 50 investment fund , which is so hard to decide which one to vote for tomorrow .
i mean , let &apos;s ask ourselves , why do we fight this ?
because we don &apos;t want to move genes around ?
it &apos;s not about pushing genes around . it &apos;s not about chemicals .
it &apos;s not about our ridiculous passion for hormones , our persistence on larger food , better food , unique food .
it &apos;s not about rice krispies , it &apos;s about keeping people alive , and it &apos;s about time to understand what that means .
because you know what ?
if we don &apos;t do that , if we keep doing it the way we &apos;re doing it , we &apos;re guilty of something that i think we don &apos;t want to be guilty of , high-tech colonialism .
there &apos;s no other description of what &apos;s going on here .
it &apos;s selfish , it &apos;s ugly , it &apos;s not worthy , and we really have to stop it .
so after this incredibly funny conversation , you might want to say , &quot; do you still want to go into this ridiculous time machine and into the future ? &quot;
and then tomorrow , and then tomorrow , and tomorrow , and tomorrow , and tomorrow , of course never comes .
anyway . i certainly want that .
right now it &apos;s in the present , but we have an incredible opportunity .
we can put this time machine on everything we want .
we can move them where we want to move them , and we &apos;re going to move them where we want to go .
we need to have these conversations , and we need to think , but when we get into the time machine and go into the future , we &apos;re going to be happy to have done that .
i know we can , and as far as i &apos;m concerned , that &apos;s something the world needs now .
thank you .
thank you .
i &apos;ve been interested in the placebo effect for a while , and it may seem strange that a magician is interested in it , unless you look at it like me , as &quot; a deception that &apos;s going to be real if somebody believes enough . &quot;
in other words , sugar pills have shown a measurable effect in some studies , the placebo effect , and that &apos;s just because the person thinks what happens to her is a pharmaceutical or a kind of ... in pain management , for example , if the patient believes only enough , there &apos;s a measurable effect in the body called the placebo effect .
understand that it &apos;s not just that people have to eat dog food when they retire , because they don &apos;t have enough money to go back , it &apos;s that decisions are so hard that they miss big investments in their employers .
a deception becomes a real thing , because somebody perceives it that way .
so in order to understand each other , i &apos;d like to show you a very basic , simple magic trick .
and i &apos;m going to show you how it works . this is a trick that , at least since the 1950s , is in every magic book for children .
i learned it from the cub scout magic of the path finder in the 1970s .
i &apos;m going to do it for you and then explain it .
and then i &apos;ll explain why i explain it .
so , look what happens .
the knife you can study ; my hand you can study .
i &apos;m just going to keep the knife like this in my fault .
i &apos;m pushing my sleeve back .
by the non-participation , they give up to 5,000 u.s. dollars a year on the employer who would have been happy to reproduce their contribution .
and to make sure that nothing in my sleeve disappears or comes out of it , i &apos;m just going to crush my wrist right here .
that &apos;s how you can see that at no time is moving anything , as long as i &apos;m hitting here , nothing can go into my sleeve or come out .
and the goal here is very simple .
i &apos;m going to open my hand , and hopefully , if everything goes well , the knife will be held by my mere physical magnetism .
it actually sits so hard in its place that i can shake it without the knife falling down .
nothing goes into my sleeve , or comes out , no trickiness , and you can study everything .
ta-da !
now , this is a trick that i often teach little kids who are interested in magic , because you can learn a lot about deception when you look closer , even though it &apos;s a very simple trick .
probably many of you in the room know this trick .
the way it works is this .
paralysis is a consequence of too many choices .
i hold the knife in my hand .
i say that i include my wrist to make sure that nothing disappears in my sleeve or comes out , and that &apos;s a lie .
the reason i hold my wrist is because it &apos;s the real secret of illusion .
because the moment i turn my hand away from you so you can see it from the back , this finger is moving here , my index finger , just from where it was , into a position where it was so extended .
great trick ?
there &apos;s somebody sitting in the back who had no childhood .
so , it &apos;s here . right .
and when i turn around , the finger changes its position .
and now you could talk about why this is a deception , why you don &apos;t realize that there are only three fingers down here : because the mind and the way he &apos;s processing information doesn &apos;t count it , one , two , three , but seeing it as a group .
but that &apos;s actually not what it &apos;s about now , and then i open my hand .
and i think it makes sure the world looks like this .
of course , it &apos;s held there , but not by the magnetism of my body , but by a trick , by my index finger , which is now there .
and when i close my hand , the same thing happens by turning back , it &apos;s hidden by this movement that the finger moves back .
i take that hand away . and here &apos;s the knife .
you can do this trick to your friends and neighbors . thank you .
now , what does this have to do with the placebo effect ?
a year ago or so , i read a study that really blew my mind .
i &apos;m not a doctor or a researcher , and that &apos;s why it was an amazing thing to me .
because what it turns out is that if you offer placebo in the form of a white pill , in the form of an aspirintablet , it &apos;s just a round , white pill that has a particular measurable effect .
but if you change the shape in which you give placebo , for example , into a smaller pill , and you color those blue and you make a letter on it , it &apos;s actually more measurably effective .
and that , although none of them are pharmaceutical -- it &apos;s just sugar pills .
you really want to make the decision right if it &apos;s for all eternity , right ?
but a white pill is not as good as a blue pill .
what ? that really freaked me out .
but it turns out it &apos;s not all there yet .
if you take capsules , they &apos;re even more effective than tablets of any form .
a colored capsule , which is at one end of yellow and on the other red , is better than a white capsule .
the dosage is also a role .
a pill twice a day is not as good as three pills -- i can &apos;t remember the exact statistics . sorry .
the key thing is , ...
... that the doses also matter .
and the shape is a role .
they don &apos;t want to choose the wrong investment fund , or even the wrong salad ressing .
and if you want to have the ultimate placebo effect , you have to reach the needle .
right ? a syringe with an ineffective -- a few milliliters of an ineffective substance that you inject to a patient .
this creates a very strong picture in your head . it &apos;s much stronger than a white pill .
this graph is really -- i &apos;m going to show you another time we have a projector .
so the fact is that the white pill doesn &apos;t work as well as the blue pill that doesn &apos;t work as well as a capsule that doesn &apos;t work as well as the needle .
and none of it has any really pharmaceutical property , and it &apos;s just our belief in it that makes a stronger impact in us .
i wanted to know if i could use this idea for a magic trick .
i take something that &apos;s obviously a deception , and i make it look real .
we know from that study that you have to reach the needle when you &apos;re supposed to go to the thing .
this is an 18-inch long hull . it &apos;s very , very sharp , and i &apos;m going to sterilize it a little bit first .
so that &apos;s the one effect . the other effect is that even if we overcome the paralysis and make a decision , we end up less satisfied with the result of choice than if we had the opportunity to choose between less possibilities .
this is really my meat . it &apos;s not damians &apos; special breeding meat .
this is my skin . this is not a special effect from hollywood .
now , i &apos;m going to put this needle in my skin , and i &apos;m going to push it through until it &apos;s going to restroke on the other side .
if you &apos;re going to be miserable -- if you &apos;re easily fainted -- i &apos;ve demonstrated this to some friends last night in the hotel room , and some people i didn &apos;t know , and a woman has become almost powerless .
so i propose , if you &apos;re going to get bad quickly , look away for the next 30 seconds , or , you know , i &apos;m going to make the first hot part in the back here .
you can see it in a moment , but you can also see away if you want .
so , it goes like this , right here , where my flesh starts , at the bottom of my arm , i &apos;m just going to make a little slip .
i &apos;m really sorry . does it make you crazy ?
and now just a little bit through my skin and on the other side like this .
now we &apos;re actually in the same situation that we had at the knife trick .
and there are several reasons for this .
something like that .
but now you can &apos;t count my fingers , right ?
so , i &apos;m going to show you . this is one , two , three , four , five .
well , yeah .
i know what people think when they see that .
they say , &quot; okay , it &apos;s not that stupid , and it &apos;s going to penetrate itself , just to give us a few minutes of entertainment . &quot;
well , then i &apos;m going to show you .
what does this look like ? pretty good .
yeah , i know .
and people in the back say , &quot; okay . i didn &apos;t see that right . &quot;
for example , take this child from the barasana in the northwest of the amazon , the people of the anakonda , believe that they came up mythologically in the dairy stream from the east in the belly of sacred snakes .
one of them is required by the great selection of different salad ressings , when you buy one , and it &apos;s not perfect -- and what salad ressing is perfect ? it &apos;s easy to imagine that you could have made a different decision that would have been better . and what happens is this visually previewed alternative leads you to regret the decision , and this regret makes a negative impact on the satisfaction that you made of your decision , even if it was a good decision .
people in the side rooms are now coming in .
let me show it from near .
this is really my skin . this is not a special effect from hollywood .
this is my flesh , and i can turn this around .
sorry . if you get miserable , look away , don &apos;t look .
the people in the back , or the people who see it at some point in the video , will say , &quot; well , that looks pretty impressive , but if it was real , he would -- you see , here &apos;s a hole and there , if it was real , it would bleed . &quot;
okay , let me squeeze a little bit of blood for you .
yeah , here it is .
i would normally take the needle out .
i would clean my arm and show you that there are no wounds .
the more possibilities there are , the easier it is to regret nothing , that is disappointing to the choice they make .
but i think , in this frame here and with the intention of making something real out of a deception , i &apos;m just going to leave the needle in there and go off the stage like that .
we &apos;re going to meet a few times in the next few days .
i hope you &apos;re looking forward to that . thank you very much .
everybody &apos;s talking about happiness today .
i had some people count the number of books that were published with happiness in the title in the last five years , and they gave up about 40 , and there was a lot more .
there &apos;s a tremendous wave of interest in happiness among researchers .
there &apos;s a lot of happiness coaching .
everybody would like to make people happier .
but despite all this tide of work , there are several cognitive traps that sort of make it almost impossible to think about happiness .
and my talk today is going to be mostly about these cognitive traps .
secondly , what economists call oppertunitability costs .
this is true of laymen who think about their own happiness , and it &apos;s true of scientists who think about happiness , because it turns out that we &apos;re just as mess as everyone else .
the first of these falls is a reluctant to admit complexity .
it turns out that the word &quot; happiness &quot; is simply not a useful word anymore because we apply it to too many different things .
i think there &apos;s a certain meaning that we could confine it , but by and large , that &apos;s something that we need to give up , and we &apos;re going to have to take the complicated view of what well-being is .
the second trap is a confusion of experience and memory : it &apos;s basically between being happy in his life and being happy about his life or happy with his life .
and these are two very different concepts , and they &apos;re both put together in the notion of happiness .
and the third is the concentration illusion , and that &apos;s the unfortunate fact that we can &apos;t think about a circumstance that affects well-being without distorting its meaning .
i mean , this is a real cognitive trap .
there &apos;s just no way to get it right .
now i &apos;d like to start with an example of someone who had a question and answer session after one of my lectures , who reported a story . &#91; unclear &#93; he said he heard a symphony , and it was absolutely glorious music , and at the end of the recording , there was a terrible circular sound .
dan gilbert made a big point this morning by telling how much the way we evaluate things depends on what we compare it .
and then he added , really quite emotionally , that &apos;s ruined the whole experience .
but it didn &apos;t have that .
what it ruined was the memories of the experience .
he had the experience .
he had 20 minutes of glorious music .
they didn &apos;t count because he was in love with a reminder ; the memory was ruined , and the memory was all he had gotten to keep .
what this really tells us is that we could think about ourselves and other people in the sense of two kinds of self .
there is a living self that lives in the present , and the present is capable of experiencing the past , but basically has the present .
it &apos;s the living self that the doctor is talking to -- you know , when the doctor says , &quot; does it hurt now if i file you here ? &quot;
and then there &apos;s a memorable self , and the remembering self is the one that counts and receives the story of our lives , and it &apos;s the one that the doctor responds to by asking the question , &quot; how did you feel lately ? &quot;
well , if there &apos;s a lot of alternatives to think about , it &apos;s easy to imagine the attractive properties of alternatives that they exclude , that makes them less satisfied with the alternatives they &apos;ve chosen .
or &quot; what was your journey to albania ? &quot; or something like that .
these are two very different units , the living self and the remembering self , and the two of them to confuse is part of the breakthrough of happiness .
well , the remembering self is a storyteller .
and that really starts with a fundamental reaction to our memories -- it starts right away .
we &apos;re not just telling stories when we &apos;re going to tell stories .
our memory tells us stories , which means what we can keep from our experiences is a story .
and let &apos;s start with an example .
there &apos;s an old study .
these are real patients who undergo a painful procedure .
i &apos;m not going to go into the details . she &apos;s not painful now , but she was painful when this study was done in the 1990s .
here &apos;s an example . for those of you who are not new yorkers , i apologize .
they were asked to report their pain every 60 seconds .
and here are two patients . these are their records .
and they &apos;re asked , &quot; who from both suffered more ? &quot;
and that &apos;s a very simple question .
patient b clearly suffered more . his gut reflection was longer , and every minute of pain that patient a had patient b , and more .
but now there &apos;s another question : &quot; how much did these patients think they were suffering ? &quot;
and here &apos;s a surprise .
and the surprise is that patient a had a much worse memory of the gut reflection than patient b .
the stories of the gut reflections were different , and because a very critical part of the story is how it ends .
and none of these stories are very construction or great -- but one of them is that clear ...
but here &apos;s what you should have thought .
but one of them is much worse than the other .
and the one that was worse is where the pain was at the very end of its peak . it &apos;s a bad story .
how do we know that ?
because we asked these people about their gut reflection , and also much later , &quot; how bad was the whole thing ? &quot;
and she was much worse for a than for b to remember .
now , this is a direct conflict between the living self and the remembering self .
from the living self &apos;s point of view , b clearly had a worse time .
now , what you could do with patient a , and we actually did clinical experiments , and it &apos;s been made , and it works , you could actually extend the gut reflection of patient a by just letting the tube in there without shaking too much on it .
that will lead to the patient suffering , but only a little bit and much less than before .
and if you do that for a few minutes , you &apos;ve done that the living self is worse off of patient a , and you &apos;ve done a lot better on the fact that the memorable self of patient a is much better off , because now patient a has given a better story about his experience .
here &apos;s some of the hamptons .
what does a story mean ?
and that &apos;s true of the stories that memory provides us , and it &apos;s true of the stories that we invent .
what a story is about is interrupting , meaningful moments and ends .
ends are very , very important , and in this case , the end is dominated .
well , the living self lives its life continuously .
it has moments of life , one by one .
and you ask , what happens to these moments ?
and the answer is really simple . they &apos;re lost forever .
i mean , most of the moments of our lives -- and i &apos;ve calculated that -- you know , the psychological presence is about three seconds long . which means , you know , there &apos;s about 600 million of them in a life . in a month , there &apos;s about 600,000 . most of them don &apos;t leave behind .
most of them are completely ignored by the remembering self .
very expensive real estate .
and yet , you get the sense that you should count , that what happened during those moments of life has happened to our lives .
it &apos;s the limited resource that we use while we &apos;re in this world .
and how we use them seemed to be important , but that &apos;s not the story that keeps the memory of ourselves for us .
so we have the memorable self and the living self , and they &apos;re really quite different .
the biggest difference between them is the process of time .
from the end of the living self , if you have a vacation and the second week is just as good as the first , then the two-week vacation is twice as good as the one-week vacation .
that &apos;s not how it works for the memory of itself .
for the memory of the self , a two-week vacation is hardly better than the one-week vacation , because there are no new memories added .
they haven &apos;t changed the story .
and in this way , time is actually the critical variable , which is different from a memorable self . time has very little impact on this story .
beautiful beach . great day . you have it all for yourself .
well , the remembering self is doing more than remembering and telling stories .
it &apos;s actually the one who makes decisions , because if you have a patient who had , say , two gut reflections in two different surgeons and decides which one to choose , then the one who has the one who has the memory , which is less bad , and that &apos;s the surgeon who &apos;s going to be chosen .
the living self has no voice in that choice .
in fact , we don &apos;t choose between experiences . we choose between memories of experiences .
and even when we think about the future , we don &apos;t usually think of our future as experiences .
we think about our future as foreseen memories .
and basically , you can look at this as , you know , a tyranny of the memory itself , and you can think of the remembering self as one that sort of draws the living self through experiences that the living self doesn &apos;t need .
i have the impression that when we do vacation , it &apos;s very often the case , which means we make vacation largely in the service of memory itself .
and that &apos;s a little hard to justify , i think .
i mean , how much do we use from our memories ?
this is a people who are not cognitively different from color and green , because the celestial scene is the forest that people depend on .
what could be better ? &quot; damn &quot; the man thinks , &quot; it &apos;s august .
this is one of the explanations that is given to the dominance of memory itself .
and when i think about it , i think of a vacation that we made a few years ago in antarctica , which was clearly the best vacation i &apos;ve ever had , and i think quite often in relation to how often i think of other vacations .
and i &apos;ve probably eaten from my memories of this three-week journey , i would say for about 25 minutes in the last four years .
now , if i had ever opened up the folder with the 600 pictures in it , i would have spent another hour .
well , that &apos;s three weeks , and that &apos;s at least one and a half hours .
there seems to be a disagreement .
now , i may be a little extreme , you know , how little appetite i have on the ears of memories , but even if you make more of them , there &apos;s a real question . why do we give memories so much weight in the spirit of the weight that we give experiences ?
so i want you to think about a thought experiment .
imagine your next vacation , you know , at the end of the vacation , all of your images are destroyed , and you get an amnesiac drug , so you &apos;re not going to remember anything .
well , would you choose the same vacation ?
everyone in my manhattan neighborhood is gone .
and if you were to choose a different vacation , there &apos;s a conflict between your two kinds of self , and you have to think about how you choose that conflict , and that &apos;s really not obvious at all , because if you think about time , you get an answer . and if you think about memories , you might get a different answer .
why we chose the vacation that we chose is a problem that comes with a choice between the two types of self .
well , the two types of self are two terms of happiness .
there are actually two concepts of happiness that we can apply , one per self .
so you can ask : how happy is the living self ?
and then you would ask , how happy are the moments in the life of the living self ?
and they &apos;re all -- happiness for moments is a pretty complicated process .
what are the emotions that can be measured ?
and , by the way , we &apos;re now able to get a pretty good idea of the happiness of the living itself over time .
if you ask about the happiness of memory itself , it &apos;s a very different thing .
i could park right in front of my house . &quot;
this is not about how happy a person lives .
it &apos;s about how happy or pleased the person is when that person thinks about their lives .
very different concepts .
anyone who doesn &apos;t distinguish these terms will mess up the exploration of happiness , and i &apos;m one of the many researchers about well-being who have been messing up the research of happiness for a long time in this particular way .
the distinction between the happiness of the living self and the satisfaction of the memory itself has been recognized in the last few years , and now you &apos;re trying to measure the two separate .
the gallup organization has a global survey where more than half a million people have been asked questions about what they think about their lives and their experience , and there have been other efforts in the direction .
so in the last few years , we &apos;ve started to learn about the happiness of the two types of self .
and the main lesson that we &apos;ve learned , i think , is that they &apos;re really different .
you can know how satisfied someone is with their life , and that really doesn &apos;t teach them a lot about how happy they live their lives and vice versa .
just to give you an idea of correlation , the correlation is about .5 .
and he spends two weeks from the thought that he has missed the opportunity , day after day , to have a great parking lot .
what that means is that if you met someone , and you would tell them , oh , his father is a two-meter man , how much would you know about his size ?
well , you would know something about its size , but there &apos;s a lot of uncertainty .
they have so much uncertainty .
if i tell you that someone has ordered their lives as eight on a scale of 10 , they have a lot of uncertainty about how happy they are with their living self .
so the correlation is low .
we know something about what determines the happiness of the happiness self .
we know that money is very important , goals are very important .
we know that happiness is largely about being satisfied with people we like to spend time with people we like .
there are other pleasures , but that &apos;s dominant .
so if you want to maximize happiness of the two types of self , you will end up doing very different things .
oppertunitation costs down the happiness that we get from our choice , even if what we &apos;ve chosen is fantastic .
the conclusion from what i &apos;ve said here is that we really shouldn &apos;t think of happiness as a replacement of well-being .
it &apos;s a completely different term .
well , very briefly , another reason that we can &apos;t think about happiness is that we don &apos;t pay attention to the same things when we think about life , and when we actually live .
so if you ask the simple question of how happy people are in california , they &apos;re not going to get the correct answer .
if you ask this question , you think that the people in california have to be happier if you live in , say , ohio .
and what happens is that when you think about life in california , think about the difference between california and other places , and that difference is , say , climate .
well , it turns out that climate is not very important for the living self , and it &apos;s not even very important for the thoughtful self that decides how happy people are .
now , because the thoughtful self is responsible , you can end up -- some people could pull to california at the end .
and it &apos;s kind of interesting to track , what happens to people who move to california hoping to be happier .
well , your living self is not going to be happier .
and the more possibilities there are in choice , the more attractive features of that choice are taken into the oppertunitation cost .
we know that .
but one thing will happen . you &apos;ll think you &apos;re happier , because if you think about it , you &apos;ll be reminded of how horrible the weather was in ohio , and you &apos;ll feel that you made the right decision .
it &apos;s very difficult to think clearly about well-being , and i hope i &apos;ve given you a sense of how hard it is .
thank you .
thank you . i have a question for you .
thank you .
now , when we telephone a few weeks ago , they told me that there was a pretty interesting result that came out of this gallup poll .
is that something that you can let us participate in , because you &apos;ve got a few minutes left ?
daniel kahneman : sure .
i think the most interesting result we found in the gallup survey is a number that we absolutely didn &apos;t expect to find .
here &apos;s another example .
we found this in terms of the happiness of the living self .
when we looked at how feelings vary with income .
and it turns out that among an income of 60,000 dollars a year , for americans , and that &apos;s a very large sample of americans , about 600,000 , but it &apos;s a great representative sample , under an income of 600,000 dollars a year .
60,000 .
dk : 60,000 .
60,000 dollars a year , people are unhappy , and they become increasingly unhappy as they get poorer .
we get an absolutely flat line about this .
i mean , i rarely saw flat lines .
what happens is obvious that money doesn &apos;t give you an experience of happiness , but that lack of money certainly makes you miserable , and we can measure that misery very , very clearly .
in the sense of the other self , the memory of the self , you get a different story .
now , this cartoon makes some statements .
the more money you make the more happy you are .
that &apos;s not true of emotions .
but danny , in the entire american effort , is about life , freedom , the pursuit of happiness .
if people were to take this finding seriously , i mean , it seems to turn everything on its head , everything we think , for example , in terms of tax policy and so on .
is there a chance that politicians , in general , would take a finding like the one seriously and make it based on politics ?
dk : you know , i think there &apos;s recognition for the role of research on happiness in politics .
the recognition will be slow in the united states , no question , but in the united kingdom , it &apos;s happening right now , and it &apos;s happening in other countries right now .
people are about to recognize that they should think about happiness when they think about politics .
it &apos;s going to take a while , and people will discuss whether they want to explore experience happiness , or whether they want to explore life rating , so we have to have this discussion pretty soon .
how to increase happiness is very different from how they think , and whether they think about the memory itself , or whether they think about the living self .
he makes a statement about it now , and maybe doing things slowly .
that &apos;s going to affect politics , i think , in the coming years .
in the united states , you &apos;re struggling to measure the experience of the population .
this will , i think , be part of the national statistic in the next decade or two .
well , it seems to me that this topic is going to be , or should at least be the most interesting political debate to follow over the next few years .
thank you very much for the invention of behavioral economics .
thank you , danny kahneman .
i &apos;m jane mcgonigal . i design video games .
i &apos;ve been developing online games for 10 years now , and my goal for the next decade is to make it as easy to save the world in reality as it is to save in online games .
i have a plan for it . i want to convince more people , including all of you , to spend more time playing bigger and more great games .
now we spend three billion hours a week playing online games .
but one of the important things he does is always who you choose to do one thing , you decide not to do other things .
some of you may think , &quot; that &apos;s a lot of time for games . &quot;
maybe a little too much time , if you think about how many problems we have to solve in the real world .
but in fact , according to my research at the institute for the future , is exactly the opposite .
three billion hours a week is not nearly enough to solve the world &apos;s most urgent problems .
in fact , i &apos;m convinced that if we want to survive the next century on the planet , we need to dramatically increase that time .
i calculated that the time it took is 21 billion hours of play a week .
this may seem a little bit resistant first , so i repeat it to make it work : if we want to solve problems like hunger , poverty , climate change , global conflict and obesity , i think we need to try to play games online for at least 21 billion hours to the end of the next decade .
no , i mean it &apos;s really serious .
why ? this picture is pretty much why i think games are so essential to the survival of the human species in the future . seriously .
this is a portrait of photographer phil toledano .
they have a peculiar language and a marriage manuscript called linguistic exogamy : you have to marry someone who speaks another language .
and these other things may have a lot of attractive properties , and it will make you do less attractive .
he wanted to capture the feelings in the game , so he set up a camera in front of the players .
this is one of the classic expressions of play .
if you &apos;re not a player , maybe you &apos;ll get some of the nuances in this picture .
you probably see this sense of urgency , a little bit of fear , but also external concentration , very deep into solving a really hard problem .
if you &apos;re playing , you &apos;ll see some nuances here that are zoomed up , and the mouth is a sign of optimism . the eyebrows show surprise .
this is a player standing on the edge of what we call an epic victory .
oh , you know that . ok . prima . so we have some players here .
an epic victory is a result that is so incredibly positive that you didn &apos;t know before that it was possible .
it was almost beyond the imagination .
and when you get to it , you &apos;re shocked that you &apos;re actually able to do something like this . this is an epic victory .
third , escalation of expectations .
this player is about to have an epic victory .
and this is what we need to see on millions of faces of problem solvers around the world when we &apos;re attacking the barriers of the next century , the face of those who are on the verge of all odds on the edge of an epic victory .
well , unfortunately , we &apos;re more likely to see this face in real life when we face difficult problems .
i call it the &quot; in life i &apos;m bad &quot; face . and it &apos;s actually my face , you know ? yes ? ok .
this is me making the &quot; i &apos;m bad &quot; face in life .
this is a graffiti in my former home in berkeley , california , where i studied why we &apos;re better at play in real life .
that &apos;s a problem that a lot of players have .
we think that in reality , we &apos;re not as good as we are in games .
and i &apos;m not just talking less successfully , although that &apos;s part of it .
we get more to play worlds . i mean , very well in the context of motivation to do something significant , inspired to work with each other .
this is what struck me when i wanted to exchange my jeans .
if we &apos;re in a game world , i think a lot of us are going to turn into our best version , anytime and instantly helpful , to try to solve the problem , as long as we need , to try again after the failure .
and in reality , when we fail , when we hit obstacles , we often feel different .
we feel overwhelmed . we feel defeated . we feel threatened , maybe depressed , frustrated or cynical .
we never have these feelings when we play games , and they just don &apos;t exist in games .
and that &apos;s what i wanted to study as a ph.d. student .
why is it impossible in games to think that you couldn &apos;t just achieve everything ?
how can we transmit these feelings from the games into reality ?
so i looked at games like the world of warcraft , which provides the ideal environment for collaborative problem solving .
and i &apos;ve noticed some things that make epic victories possible in online worlds .
so , first of all , when you get into one of these online games , especially in world of warcraft , there are a lot of different characters who are willing to trust you a global mission , right away .
i &apos;m wearing jeans , almost all the time .
but not just any mission , but a mission that fits perfectly to your current level in the game , right ?
so you can do that .
they never get a problem that they can &apos;t solve .
but always at the edge of your skills , so you have to get tired of it , but there &apos;s no unemployment in the world of warcraft .
you don &apos;t sit around and spin . there &apos;s always a very important thing to do .
and there &apos;s a lot of staff .
wherever they go , hundreds of thousands of people working with them to finish their epic mission .
we don &apos;t have that in real life , that feeling that if you have a finger snippet , you have a lot of employees ready .
and also , there &apos;s this epic story , this inspiring story of why we are and what we have to do .
then we get this whole positive feedback .
and there was a time when there were only jeans in a way , and they bought them , and they missed , they were incredibly uncomfortable , and if they wore them long enough and often washed enough , they started to feel &quot; ok . &quot;
you &apos;ve heard about &quot; level high &quot; and &quot; plus-one &quot; or &quot; + 1 intelligence . &quot;
this constant feedback is not in real life .
when i leave this stage , i don &apos;t have plus-one and plus-one crazy idea , plus-20 crazy ideas .
i don &apos;t get that feedback in real life .
so , the problem with the cooperative online worlds like world of warcraft is that it &apos;s so satisfying to stand on the edge of an epic victory at any time that we &apos;d rather spend our entire time in these game worlds .
they &apos;re just better than reality .
to this day , all the world of warcrafers together have spent 5.93 million years solving the virtual problems of azeroth .
that &apos;s not necessarily a bad thing .
it may sound miserable .
but to see it in context , 5.93 million years ago , our first primate ancestors started to go upright .
so to buy new jeans after many years of wearing the old , and i said , &quot; i &apos;d like to have a few jeans , here &apos;s my size . &quot;
so the first exciting primate .
ok , so when we talk about how much time we &apos;re currently spending playing games , it just makes sense when you &apos;re looking at time in terms of the scale of human development , which is extraordinary .
but also , it turns out that by using play all this time , we actually change what we &apos;re capable of as people .
we &apos;re developing collaborative , cardiac beings .
that &apos;s the truth . i believe that .
if you look at this interesting statistic recently published by a researcher at carnegie mellon university , the average young person from today in a country with strong play culture spends 10,000 hours with online games to the 21st year of life .
so , 10,000 hours is a very interesting number for two reasons .
first of all , for kids in the united states , 10,080 hours is the exact total of what they spend in school , from fifth grade to high school graduation -- if you &apos;re never missing .
so we have a complete parallel education here , where young people learn exactly what it means to be a good player , like anything else they learn in school .
and maybe some of you have read the new book by malcolm gladwell , &quot; superfly . &quot;
and the salesman said , &quot; do you want snake , lightweight or width ?
so you know his theory of success , the theory of success of 10,000 hours .
it &apos;s based on the great research of cognitive science that if we spend 10,000 hours studying any topic to the 21st year of life , we will become masters in it .
we become so good at whatever to do , like the most important people in the world .
so what we have here is a whole generation of young people who are master-players .
so the big question is , &quot; what exactly are players mastery ? &quot;
because if we could figure that out , we would have basically unprecedented human potential .
so many people now have in the world who spend at least an hour a day playing online games .
these are our master-players . 500 million people who are extraordinarily good at something .
and in the next decade , we have another billion players who are extraordinarily good at whatever .
if you haven &apos;t heard it yet .
do you want to wash buttons or tires ? stone or acid ?
the game industry is developing consoles that save energy and work on mobile devices , rather than the broadband internet , so that players around the world , especially in india , china , brazil , can play online .
you expect an extra billion players in the next decade .
so we have 1.5 billion players in total .
so i started to think about what it is that these games make us master .
here are the four things i found . first of all , urgency optimism .
ok , think of this as extreme self-motivation .
urgency optimism is the desire to do something immediately , a hurdle , together with the belief that we have a green hope for success .
players always believe that an epic victory is possible , and it &apos;s always worth trying , and it &apos;s the same .
players are not sitting around .
players are masters in the spider of dense social nets .
do you want to protect jeans with holes ?
there &apos;s a lot of interesting research that shows that we people like more after we &apos;ve played with them , even when they &apos;ve defeated us .
the reason for that is that it requires a lot of trust to play a game with somebody .
we trust that someone spends time with us , that the rules are maintained , that we have the same goal , and we stay with the game end .
so the interaction enables the growing of ties , trust and each other .
as a result , we &apos;re building stronger social relationships .
happy productivity . fantastic !
you know , there &apos;s a reason why the average word of warcrafers play 22 hours a week , sort of as a part-time job .
the reason is that when we play , we &apos;re actually happier at working hard than when we &apos;re relaxing or doing nothing .
we know that as human beings , we work optimally when we do hard , significant work .
and players are always ready to work hard when they get the right job .
do you want to cut far down , keen , blah blah , blah , blah , blah , and so on , he said .
and finally , epic meaning .
players love to be part of an awesome missions of planetary extent .
here &apos;s a backbone formation to bring that to the right . you know wikipedia , the largest wiki in the world .
the second largest wiki in the world , with almost 80,000 entries , is the world of warcraft wiki .
five million people use it every month .
they &apos;ve put more information together about the world of warcraft on the internet than any other subject in every other wiki in the world .
they create an epic story .
they create an epic source of knowledge about the world of warcraft .
ok , so these are four superpowers that lead to a single outcome . players are super-powerful , hopeful individuals .
it &apos;s people who believe that they can change the world as individuals .
all of this is rooted in the mythological past , the strange thing about these big houses that are spoken about six or seven languages because of the mischehen , but you never hear somebody who &apos;s learning a language .
my jaw was down , and after i recovered , i said , &quot; i &apos;d like to have the kind that used to be the only species . &quot;
and the only problem is that you think you can change the virtual worlds , but not the real world .
that &apos;s the problem i &apos;m trying to solve .
edward castronova is a economist .
his work is brilliant . he studies why people spend so much time , energy and money in online worlds .
and he says , &quot; we are witnessing not less than a mass immigration in virtual worlds and online game environments . &quot;
and this is from an economist . so it &apos;s logical .
and he says ...
not like me -- i &apos;m developing games , i &apos;m a little bit overwhelming .
so he says , this actually makes sense , because players can achieve more in online worlds than in real life .
they can do more powerful social bonds in games than in real life . they get more feedback and rewards in games than in real life .
he had no idea what that was , so i spent an hour trying all these damn jeans , and i left the business -- and i say the truth -- with the best passing jeans i &apos;ve ever had .
so , he says , it &apos;s completely logical right now that players spend more time in the virtual world than in the real world .
i agree first , that &apos;s logical .
but it &apos;s definitely not an optimal situation .
we need to start to turn the real world into a game .
my inspiration comes from an event that comes back 2,500 years .
there are these ancient cubes made of sheep . you know ?
before these fantastic game controllers , there were sheep .
and these were , in a sense , the first of human beings to develop toys .
and if you &apos;re familiar with the work of the ancient greek historian herodotus , you may know this story . the story about how and why games were invented .
according to herodotus , games , more precise cubes , were invented in the kingdom of lydia during a famine .
i had better . all that choice allowed me to have it better .
there was such a famine , supposedly , that the king of lydia decided to come up with a crazy idea .
people suffered . people fought .
it was an extreme situation . you needed an extreme solution .
so they invented , according to herodotus , the cubic game and compatible a national strategy , and one day you would eat . the next day you would play .
and they would be so deeply immersed in the box , because games are so fascinating and surrounded us with satisfying , happy productivity that they would forget that there was nothing to eat .
and then the next day , you would play , and the next day you would eat .
and according to herodotus , they survived this famine for 18 years by eating one day and playing the next day .
similarly , i think we &apos;re using games today .
we use games to escape the suffering of the real world .
we use games to escape everything that doesn &apos;t work in the real world , everything that &apos;s not satisfying in real life , and we get what we need from the games .
but i felt worse .
but that doesn &apos;t have to be the end .
that &apos;s the exciting thing .
according to herodotus , after 18 years , the famine didn &apos;t get better , so the king decided to put a last cubic game .
they divided the kingdom into two halves .
they played a cube game , and the victims were allowed to break up to an epic adventure .
they left lydias and they went looking for a new home , and they just left as many people as there was food to survive , and they looked for the rest of an area where they could thrive .
that sounds crazy , right ?
but the latest dna evidence shows that the etruskers who later formed the roman empire have the same dna as the old lydiers .
so scientists recently came to think that herodotus &apos;s crazy story is actually true .
and geologists found evidence of a global cooling refrigeration that took almost 20 years to explain what the famine might explain .
why ? i wrote a whole book to try and explain it to myself .
so this crazy story could be true .
maybe they actually rescued their people through play by flipping themselves into games for 18 years , and then they had this insight and learned so much about playing with each other that they were saving the entire civilization .
so , we can .
we &apos;ve been playing warcraft since 1994 .
this was the first strategy game in real time in the world of warcraft series . this was 16 years ago .
they played cubes for 18 years , we &apos;ve been playing warcraft for 16 years .
i &apos;m saying we &apos;re ready for our own epic game .
so , they sent half of their civilization to look for a new world , so i take my 21 billion game hours a week .
we should come to the fact that half of us spend an hour a day playing games , until we &apos;ve solved the real world &apos;s problems .
i know you &apos;re going to ask , &quot; how do we solve problems of the real world in games ? &quot; and that &apos;s exactly what i &apos;ve been doing for the last few years at the institute for the future .
the reason i felt worse , with all these available possibilities , my expectations for what makes a good couple of jeans went up .
we have this banner in our office in palo alto , which is how we should understand the future .
we don &apos;t want to try to say the future before .
what we want is to create the future .
we want to imagine the best possible outcome , and then people are empowered to put this idea into reality .
we imagine epic victories , and we give people the opportunity to reach them .
i &apos;m going to show you very briefly three games that i &apos;ve designed to try to get people to epic victories in their own future .
this is &quot; world without oil . &quot;
the game is from 2007 .
it &apos;s an online game where you have to overcome an oil shortage .
i had very low expectations . i had no concrete expectations when they were just in a way .
we &apos;ve tested this game with 1,700 players in 2007 , and we &apos;ve been following them since the last three years .
and i can tell you , it was a transformative experience .
nobody wants to change their lives because it &apos;s good for the environment , or because we should .
but if you &apos;re in an epic adventure and you &apos;re told , &quot; we &apos;re going to run out of oil . &quot;
this is a fascinating adventure that you go to .
find out how they would survive . most of our players have maintained habits in the game .
so for the next world treating , we set ourselves a bigger , higher goal than just oil scarcity .
we developed the game &quot; superstruct &quot; at the institute for the future .
the starting point is a supercomputer computation that people only have 23 years left on the planet .
this supercomputer is called &quot; global extinction system , &quot; of course .
when they came in 100 species , damn it , one of them should have been perfect .
the call to players to sign up , we created almost like a jerry grower film .
you know jerry bruckheimer movies , where there &apos;s the dream-team , and they have the astronauts , the scientists , the ex-beach ring , and they can only save the world together .
but in our game , instead of just five people , say , everybody is in the dream-team , and it &apos;s our job to create the future for energy , food , health , security and the future of social justice .
8,000 players played the game for eight weeks .
they found 500 incredibly creative solutions that they can read when they google &quot; superstruct . &quot;
and the last game we bring out on march 3rd , which is a game in collaboration with the world bank .
when you close the game , you get the award from the world bank , &quot; social transformation , &quot; degree in 2010 .
we work with universities across sub-saharan africa and invite them to learn to redesign social .
we have a comic book on this . we have &quot; level high &quot; for local understanding , knowledge connectivity , sustainability , vision and ingenuity .
i want to invite you all to share this game with young people all over the world , especially in developing areas that benefit from imagining their own social enterprises together to save the world .
and what i got was good , but it wasn &apos;t perfect .
i &apos;ll end now .
i want to ask you something .
what do you think happens next ?
we have all these fantastic players , we have games that show us what we can do , but we haven &apos;t saved the real world yet .
well , i hope you &apos;ll agree that players are human resources that we can use to work in real life , and that games have a big meaning for change .
we have all these superpowers , happy productivity , the ability to make tight social nets , urgency optimism and desire for epic meaning .
i really hope that we &apos;re playing meaningful games together to survive another century on this planet .
and i hope you &apos;ll design and play with me like that .
when i look ahead in the next decade , i &apos;m sure two things : that we can create any imaginable future , and that we can play all kinds of games .
so i say , let the world-changing games start !
and so i compared what i had gotten to what i expected , and what i had was disappointing compared to what i expected .
thank you .
i &apos;d like to tell you something that i noticed a few months ago in writing an article for italian wired .
i &apos;ve always been doing my synonymous dictionary , but i &apos;ve been done with the process of texting , and i realized that i &apos;ve never proposed in my life what the word &quot; disabled &quot; really means .
i &apos;m going to read you the post .
&quot; disabled , &quot; adjectively : &quot; curved , helpless , useless , destroyed , devastated , mutilated , wounded , camoufed , disconnected , served , balanced , impotent , caputed , paralyzed , handicapt senil , age weak , pulled out of traffic , relieved , done , broken , broken , counted , injured , injured , useless and weak .
antonym : healthy , strong , powerful . &quot;
i read this list to a friend loud , and i had to laugh for the first time , it was so ridiculous , but i just came up to &quot; lit , &quot; and i couldn &apos;t speak anymore , and i had to stop reading , and i had to collect myself after this sort of out-of-the-box wordstream emotional shock .
of course , this was an out-of-the-box , old synonymous dictionary , and i just thought the copy had to be pretty old .
but in fact , it was an issue in the early &apos; 80s , when i was just starting in elementary school and starting to build and shape my self-image outside my family environment , in terms of other children and the rest of the world around me .
and thank god i didn &apos;t use a synonymous dictionary at the time .
you just listen and then start talking .
adding options to people &apos;s lives is inevitably increasing people &apos;s expectations about how well these possibilities are going to be .
if i were to take this entry seriously , i would be born into a world that someone like me would perceive as a person whose life cannot be positive in any way , but today i am celebrated for the odds and adventures that i &apos;ve experienced .
so i immediately called myself up the online copy of 2009 and expected me to find a more appealing contribution here .
here &apos;s the updated version of this entry .
unfortunately , it &apos;s not much better .
in particular , the last two words are shooting me under near antonym &apos;s &quot; whole &quot; and &quot; healthy . &quot;
but it &apos;s not just about the words .
it &apos;s what we think about the people we describe with these words .
it &apos;s about the values that are in these words , and how we construct these values .
our language affects our thinking and how we see the world and the people around us .
many ancient societies , including the greeks and the romans , have really believed that the language of a flight has a great force , because what you &apos;re talking about loud can also manifest itself .
and this leads to less satisfaction with the results , even though the results are good .
so what do we really want to manifest -- a disabled person or a powerful person ?
so , just to mention a human being mindlessly as a child might be enough to constrain them and reconcile them with ideas .
wouldn &apos;t it be more beautiful to open your doors ?
a man who opened doors to me was my pediatrician at the a.i. dupont institute in wilmington in delaware .
it &apos;s called dr. pizzutillo . it &apos;s a italo american whose name , as you can imagine , most americans couldn &apos;t speak correctly . so he was always called dr. p.
and dr. p. always wore very colorful flies and was just created for work with kids .
i found the time i spent in this hospital , just great -- except for my physiotherapy .
i had to repeat individual practices , seemingly infinite times , with these thick , elastic bands -- in various colors -- you know that to build my leg muscles , and i hated these tapes more than anything else . i hated them . i flooded them . i hated them .
and imagine , in fact , i even negotiated with dr. p. as a five-year-old child , trying to stop these practices , naturally without success .
and one day he watched me do one of my exercises -- these practices were just tiring and scarless -- and he said to me , &quot; wow , aimee , you &apos;re such a strong , powerful and young girl , you &apos;re going to rip one of these bands one day .
no one in the world of marketing knows this , because if you did , you all didn &apos;t know what this is about .
and if you can do it , i &apos;ll give you a hundred dollars . &quot;
this was , of course , just a simple trick from dr. p. , so i do the kind of exercise that i didn &apos;t want to do with the idea that becoming the richest five-year-old girl in the hospital station in the second floor , but he actually got me to see my daily practice horror with new eyes , so it became a new and promising experience .
and i wonder today how much his vision of me as a strong and powerful young girl has shaped my self-image , and i &apos;ve been able to think of myself as a naturally powerful , powerful and atlethal person .
this is just one example of many , how adults in power positions can stimulate the imagination of a child .
but as the targeted examples from the synonymous dictionaries prove , our language doesn &apos;t allow us to imagine something we would all wish : to enable each one to think of itself as powerful people .
our language depends on the social changes that have been triggered in many cases by a technological change .
and of course , from the medical standpoint , you can say that my legs , the laser surgery , for visually impaired , knee joints from titan and artificial hip joints for aging bodies that allow people to really use all of their possibilities and to develop beyond the limits that gave them their natural destiny to develop , not at all to speak of social networking platforms , enable people to have their own identity in their own way , to define themselves in a way , and navigate around the world to groups that they choose themselves .
so maybe this technological change is clear to the point that there has always been a different truth , which is that every human being can give something very special and very powerful to society , and that the human ability to adapt is our biggest plus .
the human ability to adapt -- this is an interesting story , because people are always asking me to tell you how i deal with vienna , and i &apos;m going to tell you something : this sentence never fit for me , and i &apos;ve always felt very uncomfortable with answering the questions of people , and i think , gradually , i understand why .
this phrase from the process of vienna lives on the idea that success or happiness depends on a challenge , without being shaped by the experience associated with it . as if my life had been so successful , because i could avoid the possible falling of a life with a prosthetic , or whatever people perceive me with my disability .
the truth is more like this .
but the truth is that we are changing . of course , we are shaped by the challenge , whether it &apos;s physical , emotional or even both .
and i &apos;m saying that &apos;s good .
vicinity is not an obstacle that we need to embrace in order to deal with our lives better .
vicinity is just in our lives .
and i tend to think of persistence as my shadow .
sometimes i realize that it &apos;s very present , sometimes it &apos;s hardly seen , but it &apos;s constantly with me .
and i don &apos;t want to take the impact , or the severe of a human struggle .
there are persistence and challenges in life , and they &apos;re just too real , and every person is going to deal with it differently , but the question is not whether we can deal with widerness or not , but how we deal with it .
so we &apos;re not only responsible for preserving the people we love from fatalities , but also preparing them to get along well .
and we don &apos;t like our kids when we give them the feeling that they can &apos;t adapt .
the reason that used to be better than anything was worse than anything was worse , it was possible for people to experience experience that was a pleasant surprise .
you have to separate two things clearly : for one thing , the medical fact , to be amputated , and for the other , the social opinion about whether i &apos;m disabled or not .
and to be honest , the only real and remaining disability that i had to deal with is that the world is constantly meant to describe me with these definitions .
in our desire to protect the people that we care about and tell them the cold , hard truth about their medical prediction , or even to give them a forecast for quality of life that they expect , we need to pay attention to the fact that we don &apos;t have the basis of somebody who is actually disabled .
maybe the current concept that &apos;s just paying attention to what &apos;s in a broken , and how we repair that to each one is a greater disability than the pathology itself .
if we don &apos;t treat a human being wholly , and we don &apos;t perceive all of his power and possibilities , in addition to the natural struggle that you might have to lead , another disease .
we degrade a person who has value for our society .
so we have to look beyond the patology and focus on all of the human possibilities .
but most importantly , between the perception of our inadequacy and our great inventor mind , there is a connection .
we should not devalue or deny these challenging times , we should not try to avoid them , or should we reverse them under the carpet , but it &apos;s about recognizing odds in the vienna .
i may be more interested in realizing that we don &apos;t necessarily have to overcome vitality , but that we &apos;re open to the hug , put them on the shelf to use a fight expression , and maybe even dance with it .
today , in the world that we live in -- we wealthy , industrialized citizens , with perfection as an expectation -- the best thing you can ever hope for is things as good as you expect them to be .
and maybe we &apos;re able to see vitality as something natural , coherent and useful , and we &apos;re so uncomfortable with their presence .
this year , we celebrate the 200th birthday of charles darwin and when he wrote about evolution 150 years ago , darwin , in my view , pointed to something very true in the human character .
i would rewrite it this way : not the most powerful of its kind survives , but also the most intelligent of its kind , but the one that can adapt to change the best .
conflict comes from creativity .
not only from darwin &apos;s work do we know that the ability of man to survive and to flourish is determined by the struggle of the human mind to turn through conflict .
so , again , change and adaptation are the greatest skills of human beings .
and maybe we don &apos;t know what wood we &apos;re cut out of when we &apos;re really tested .
maybe that &apos;s exactly the sense of vienna , a sense of iconic , a sense of our own power .
we can give ourselves something like this .
we can create a new meaning that goes beyond severe times .
you &apos;ll never be surprised , because your expectations , my expectations , are high .
maybe we can see vitality as change .
there is a change that we haven &apos;t yet adapted to .
i think the biggest damage we &apos;ve added to ourselves is to believe that we should be normal .
let &apos;s face it -- who &apos;s normal ?
there &apos;s no normal .
there &apos;s the usual . the typical . but not the normal . and would you really want to know this poor , gray person if they really existed ?
i don &apos;t think so .
it would be great if we could reconcile this paradigm of normality against another of the possibilities or the strength to make it a little bit more dangerous , exchange it . so we can release the forces of very many children , and invite them to bring their very special and valuable skills to society .
anthropolgs have found that we &apos;ve always asked people from members of our society to be useful and to contribute .
there &apos;s evidence that the neanderthals , 60,000 years ago , were carrying older people and people with severe physical injuries , and that might have happened because the life experience of these people was valuable for society .
the secret to happiness -- that &apos;s what you &apos;ve all come to -- the secret to happiness is low expectations .
they didn &apos;t think of these people as broken and useless ; they were treated as something special and valuable .
a few years ago , i went to the city where i had grown up to a food market in this red zone in the northeast of pennsylvania , and i was standing in front of a bowl of tomato .
it was summer , and i had shorts .
and i hear a guy behind me saying , &quot; well , if that &apos;s not aimee mullins . &quot;
and i turn around and i see this older man . i had no idea who he is .
and i said , &quot; sorry , sir , do we know ? i can &apos;t remember you . &quot;
and he said , &quot; well , you can &apos;t remember me .
when i first saw her , i took her out of her mother &apos;s belly . &quot;
oh , so that one .
and of course , it did click .
i want to say -- a short autobiographical moment -- that i &apos;m married to a woman , and she &apos;s really , really wonderful .
this was dr. kean , a man who i only knew from narratives of my mother about this day , because , of course , i , quite typical , came too late to my birthday two weeks .
my mother &apos;s doctor for prenatal diagnostic was on vacation , and so my parents didn &apos;t know the man who brought me to the world at all .
and because i was born without a wade legs , and my feet had been looking for them , and i only had a few toes on this one and a few toes on the other foot , he was the superbringer , that stranger had to overcome the bad news .
he said to me , &quot; i had to tell your parents that you would never walk , and you would never be as moving as other kids or you could never live an independent life , and since then they just punished me lying . &quot;
really extraordinary , i found that he had collected newspaper clips of my entire childhood , whether i &apos;d won in a letter competition in the second grade , whether i &apos;d been out with the pathway finders at the parade , whether i had my scholarship or one of my athletic settlements , and he used these cuts to teach his students , medical students from the hahneman medical school and the hershey medical school .
and he called this part of his course the x factor , the potential of the human will .
you just can &apos;t emphasize enough how critical this factor can be to the quality of a human being &apos;s life .
and dr. kean kept telling me , he said , &quot; i &apos;ve learned that if you &apos;re not always told something else , and even if you &apos;re just getting a little bit of support , if you leave children to yourself , children can achieve a lot . &quot;
you see , dr. kean changed his mind .
he understood that the medical diagnosis , and how someone is dealing with it , is two different things .
i couldn &apos;t have done it better . i didn &apos;t let myself down .
and i &apos;ve also changed my thinking over time , if you &apos;d asked me , at the age of 15 , if i &apos;d swapped my prostheses for meat and bones , i wouldn &apos;t have hesitated a second .
i really wanted to be normal at the time .
if you ask me that today , i &apos;m not so sure .
and that &apos;s what happened because i &apos;ve experienced something with my legs and not despite those experiences .
and maybe this change could happen , because i &apos;ve encountered so many people who have opened doors to me , rather than meeting people who have wanted to constrain me or overcome an idea .
you see , it really only takes one person to demonstrate to you how you can manifest your forces , and you &apos;re through .
if you allow someone to activate their own internal forces -- the human mind is so recommended -- if you can do that and open a door for someone in a critical moment , you &apos;re a very good teacher for those people .
they teach them to open up doors .
the real meaning of the word &quot; educate &quot; rooted in the word &quot; educe . &quot;
it means to create something that is in one that is to tickle out the potential .
or , one of the most fascinating tribes i &apos;ve ever lived with , the waorani in the northeast of ecuador , an amazing people who was first contacted in 1958 peaceful .
but letting go is not always such a bad thing .
again , what potential do we want to call up ?
in the &apos; 60s , a case study was done in the u.k. , and then gymnasians were transformed into whole schools .
they call this &quot; streaming trials &quot; in the united states , we call this &quot; tracking . &quot;
the students are split up after notes .
and the a students are tested tirelessly , get the better teachers and so on .
they then , over a three-month period of time , they gave students a &quot; enough &quot; the note &quot; very good . &quot; they were told that they were very smart , and after those three months , they really wrote one thing .
and of course , it breaks your heart , that conversely , the one-student was told they were only enough .
and the same thing , after the three months , it was .
but only those who were still in school -- besides the students who had failed the school .
and the key thing about this study was that the teachers were not denied .
finally , a series of buying a bad jean , if there &apos;s only one way to buy , that if you &apos;re unsatisfied , and you wonder why , who is responsible , the answer is clear . the world is responsible . what could you have done ?
the teachers didn &apos;t know that something was changed .
they were just told that they were the one-student , and these are the students with the grade , and they were teaching them something and they were treating them .
the only real disability is a broken mind that has been broken has no more hope . he finds nothing more beautiful . he lacks our natural , child-like curiosity and our innate capacity of imagination .
but if we can continue to support the human mind in the process of continuing to hope for ourselves and other people around them to be beautiful , to be curious and imaginative , then we &apos;re really implementing our forces .
if a mind has these qualities , we can create a new reality and new existence .
i want to end with a poem written by a persian poet named hafiz in the 14th century that my friend jacques dembois told me about . and the poem is called &quot; the god who knows only four words . &quot; every child knows not the god of the name , not the god of the bow , but the god who knows only four words and repeats them all the time , he always says , &quot; come , dance with me . &quot;
come on , dance with me . thank you very much .
how would you want to be better than you are right now ?
suppose that , through a few changes in your genes , you could have a better memory -- more precise , more precise and faster .
or do you want to be fitter , stronger , have more power .
if hundreds of different kinds of jeans are available , and they buy one that &apos;s disappointing , and they ask why , who &apos;s responsible ?
would you like to become more attractive and confident ?
what would it be like to live longer in good health ?
or maybe you &apos;re one of whom has always been longing for more creativity .
which one would you like the most ?
which one would you like to have if it could only have one ?
creativity .
how many people would choose creativity ?
raise your hands . let me see .
a few . probably about as many as there are creative people here .
that &apos;s very good .
is it just as clear that the answer to the question is , you .
how many would choose to have a good memory ?
a few more .
how about fitness ?
a few less .
what about longevity ?
ah , the majority . i like to see that as a doctor .
if you could only have one of them , it would be a very different world .
is this all just education ?
or is it possible ?
evolution has been a continuous topic here at the ted conference , but today i want to give you the view of a doctor about it .
they could have done better .
the great geneticist in the 20th century , t.g. dobzhansky , who was also a communicator in the russian orthodox church , once wrote an essay called &quot; nothing in biology doesn &apos;t make sense except in the light of evolution . &quot;
now , if you &apos;re one of those who doesn &apos;t accept the evidence of biological evolution , this would be a very good time to turn off your hearing device , take your personal communication device -- i &apos;ll give you permission -- and maybe you can take a look at kathryn schultz &apos; book , which is to be wrong , because nothing else in this talk will make any sense for you .
but if you accept biological evolution , consider this : is it just about the past , or is it about the future ?
is it yellow for others , or is it true for us ?
this is another look at the tree of life .
in this picture , i put a bush as a center of branches in all directions , because if you look at the edges of the tree of life , all the existing specials at the tips of these branches have succeeded in evolutionary terms , they have survived ; it has demonstrated its environment fitness and strength .
the human part of this book , far at the end , is , of course , what we &apos;re most interested in .
we branch from a common ancestor to modern chimpanzees about six or eight million years ago .
in that period of time , there were maybe 20 or 25 different species of hominids .
some have come and gone .
with 100 different kinds of jeans in the window , there &apos;s no excuse for error .
we &apos;ve been here for about 130,000 years .
it seems like we &apos;re quite remote from the other parts of life , but actually most of the time , the fundamental mechanisms of our cells are pretty much the same .
is it clear to you that we can take advantage of this and the mechanisms of a common bacterium to produce the protein of human insulin , which is used to treat diabetics ?
this is not like humaninsulin ; this is the same protein that &apos;s chemically undistinct from what comes out of the pancreas .
and as we &apos;re talking about bacteria , are you aware that each of us in our gut is leading more bacteria than it is in the rest of our bodies ?
maybe 10 times as many .
i mean , do you think when antonio damasio asks for your self-image , do you think about the bacteria ?
our gut is a wonderfully hospitable environment for these bacteria .
it &apos;s warm , it &apos;s dark , it &apos;s wet , it &apos;s very comfortable .
and you &apos;re going to give them all the nutrients that they could only wish without effort on their own .
and so , when people make decisions , and even if the results of decisions are good , they feel disappointed about it , they accuse themselves .
it &apos;s a really easy way for bacteria , with occasional interruptions of the unintended , jeodch forced to run .
but otherwise , they &apos;re a wonderful environment for these bacteria , just like they &apos;re important for their lives .
they help to digestive essential nutrients , and they protect them against certain diseases .
but what &apos;s going to come in the future ?
are we in a kind of evolutionary balance in a species ?
or are we going to be something else -- something that might even be better adapted to the environment ?
now let &apos;s take it back to the time of the big bang 14 billion years ago -- the earth , the solar system , about four and a half billion years ago -- the first signs of living things , maybe three to four billion years ago on earth -- the first multi-celled organisms , maybe as much as 800 or a billion years ago -- and then the human species , which eventually forms in the last 130,000 years .
in this vast unfinished symphony of the universe , life on earth is just briefly measured ; the animal kingdom , like a single bar ; and human life , a small notation .
that was us .
this is also the entertainment value of this talk , so i hope you enjoy it .
clinical depression exploded in the industrial world in the last generation .
now , when i was a neuling in college , i had my first biology class .
i was fascinated by the elegance and beauty of biology .
i fell in love with the power of evolution , and i found something very fundamental : most of the existence of life in individual organisms , each cell divides , and all of the genetic information of the cell is carried on into both daughter cells .
but at the time , when multi-cellular organisms showed up , things started to change .
sexual reproduction comes into the picture .
and most importantly , with the introduction of sexual reproduction that the genome passes on , the rest of the body becomes desirable .
in fact , you could say that the inevitability of the death of our body is in evolution at the same moment as sexual reproduction .
now i have to say , if i was a college student , i thought , okay , sex / death , sex / death , death for sex -- it seemed pretty reasonable at the time , but with every year , it &apos;s come to my growing doubt .
i came to understand the feelings of george burns , who introduced his show in las vegas in the &apos; 90s .
and one night , there &apos;s a knob on his hotel door .
i think a significant -- not the only one , but a significant contributor to this explosion of depression , and also suicide , is that people have experienced who are disappointing because their standards are so high . and then , if they have to explain these experiences themselves , think it &apos;s their fault .
he opens the door .
in front of him , there &apos;s a beautiful , lovely dressed showgirl .
she looks at him and says , &quot; i &apos;m here for super-sex . &quot;
&quot; that &apos;s wonderful , &quot; george says , &quot; i &apos;ll take the soup . &quot;
i came to the realization as a doctor that i was working on a goal that was different from the goal of evolution -- not necessarily contradictory , just different .
i tried to preserve the body .
i wanted to keep us healthy .
i wanted to restore health after a disease .
i wanted us to live a long and healthy life .
evolution is all about the continuation of the genome to the next generation , adaptation and survival generation after generation .
and so the imagery is that we &apos;re generally doing better , objective , and we &apos;re feeling worse .
from an evolutionary standpoint , they and i , like boster rockets , are designed to send the genetic question to the next stage of the orbit , and then fall into the sea .
i think we would all understand the mood that woody allen expressed when he said , &quot; i don &apos;t want to reach immortality through my work .
i want to do it by not dying . &quot;
evolution is not necessarily preferring the longest life .
it doesn &apos;t necessarily prioritize the biggest , the strongest or the fastest , and not even the smartest .
evolution celebrates the creatures that are best adapted to the environment .
it &apos;s the only test of survival and success .
on the bottom of the ocean , bacteria are there that are thermophil , and by doing so , the hot vapor will survive otherwise , if fish were there , it would have a vacuum of boiled fish as a result , they were able to make a habitable environment for themselves .
so , what does that mean when we look back at what &apos;s going on in evolution , and how we think about the place of people in evolution , and particularly how we look forward to the next phase , i would say that there are a number of possibilities .
the first is that we &apos;re not going to evolve .
in 1957 , five missionaries tried to contact and made a major mistake .
so let me remind you .
we &apos;ve reached a kind of balance .
and the reason for that is that , first of all , we &apos;ve been able to get a lot of genes that would have otherwise been selected and had been removed from the population .
and secondly , we as a species have configured our environment so that we &apos;ve managed to adapt to them and we adapt to them .
and by the way , we &apos;re wandering and circulating and mixing so much that they can no longer say that isolation is necessary for evolution to find statements .
a second possibility is that it will be a evolution of the traditional species , of course , imposed by the forces of nature .
and the argument here would be that the wheels of evolution are slowly grinding , but they &apos;re inexorable .
and as far as the isolation goes , if we colonize as a species of planets , there will be isolation and the changes of the environment that could naturally produce evolution .
but there &apos;s a third possibility , a devastating , fascinating and terrifying possibility .
i call it neo-evolution -- the new development that &apos;s not just natural , but led and decided to be an individual in the decisions that we make .
now , how could this happen ?
this is the official dogma that we all think is right is completely wrong . it &apos;s not true .
how could it be that we do this ?
let &apos;s start by looking at the reality that people today , in some cultures , make decisions about their offspring .
they are , in some cultures , the choice to have more men than women .
it &apos;s not necessarily good for society , but it &apos;s what the individual and the family decides .
so think , if it wasn &apos;t just possible to choose the gender of your child , but also take on the body genetic adaptations that would heal and prevent disease .
what if you could make the genetic changes to eliminate diabetes or alzheimer &apos;s disease or reduce the risk of cancer or stroke ?
wouldn &apos;t you want to make these changes in your genes ?
if we look ahead , these kinds of changes will be increasingly possible .
the human genome project started in 1990 , and it took 13 years .
it cost 2.7 billion dollars .
there &apos;s no question that &apos;s a little bit better than no choice , but it doesn &apos;t follow that more choice is better than a choice .
the next year , when it was done in 2004 , they were able to do the same thing for 20 million dollars in it to four months .
today , you can complete a sequence of the three billion base pairs of the human genome at a price of about 20,000 dollars and in the room of about a week .
it &apos;s not going to take long for the reality that there &apos;s going to be 1,000 dollars of human genomes , and it &apos;s going to be increasingly available for everybody .
a week ago , the national academy of engineering gave the draper prize for francis arnold and wild stemmer , two scientists who developed independently the natural process of evolution to work faster and lead to desirable proteins in an efficient way -- what frances arnold calls &quot; direct evolution . &quot;
a few years ago , the laser er prize was given to scientist shinya yamanaka for his research in which he took an adult skin cell , a fibroblasts , and through manipulation of only four genes that induced the cell to return it to a pluripotent stem cell -- a cell potentially able to become any cell in your body .
these changes are coming .
the same technology that the human insulin produces in bacteria can make viruses that can not only be protected from itself , but also serve immunity to other viruses .
whether you believe it or not , it &apos;s an experimental study in the gang with vaccine against influenza that has been grown in the cells of a tobacco plant .
can you imagine something good coming out of tobacco ?
this is all reality today , and in the future , it &apos;s going to be much more possible .
there &apos;s a magical amount . i don &apos;t know what it is .
imagine just two other small changes .
you can change the cells in your body , but what if you could change the cells of your descendants ?
what if you could change the sperm and ice cells or the newly fertilized egg to give your children a better chance for a healthier life -- eliminating diabetes , eliminating the hemophilia , reducing the risk of cancer ?
who doesn &apos;t want healthier kids ?
and then the analytical technique , the same engine of science that can enable the change to prevent disease , could also allow us to adopt super-attributes , hyper-capacity -- the better memory .
why don &apos;t you have the capacity of a ken of jennings , especially if you can expand it with the next generation of the watson machine ?
why not have the fast muscle fibers that will allow them to run faster and longer ?
why no longer live ?
these will be irresistible .
and if we &apos;re in a place where we can pass it on to the next generation , and we can adopt the attribute that we want , we will be transformed by alt-style evolution to neo-evolution .
i &apos;m pretty sure we &apos;ve missed this point in the selection of our common good .
we &apos;re going to have a process that &apos;s usually going to take perhaps 100,000 years , and we can compress it to a thousand years -- and maybe even the next 100 years .
these are decisions that your grandchildren need to deal with , or your grandchildren , with .
do we use these decisions to form a society that &apos;s better , that &apos;s more successful , that &apos;s more friendly ?
or are we going to selectively choose different attributes that we want to have for some of us and not for others ?
will we be a society of diligent and uniformers , or robuster and multilateral ?
these are the kinds of questions that we need to face .
and the deepest of all , will we ever be able to develop the wisdom and master the wisdom that we will need to make these decisions wise ?
in the good and in the bad , and sooner than you might think , these decisions will be on us .
thank you .
i want you to imagine now something , a portable robot that gives you superhuman skills , or another one that helps wheelchair drivers to stand up and go .
now , as a rule of question -- i &apos;m almost finished -- as a basic question about the thinking , what makes all this choice possible in the industrialized societies is wealth .
we at berkeley bionics call these robots exoskeletons .
they &apos;re nothing but something that they &apos;re doing in the morning that gives them extra strength and will continue to increase their speed and that will help them maintain their balance , for example .
this is , in fact , the real melting of human and machine .
but not only that -- they merge and connect with the universe and other devices out there .
it &apos;s not just a crazy idea .
now to show you what we &apos;re working on , we &apos;re starting to talk about the american soldier , on average , carrying about 100 pounds on his back , and it &apos;s the question that they should carry more equipment .
of course , this leads to some major complications -- spinal injuries , 30 percent of them -- chronic spinal cord injuries .
so we thought that we would take this challenge and create an exoskeleton that would help deal with this problem .
so let me introduce you now to hulc -- or the human universal load carrier .
soldat : with the hulc exoskeleton , i can carry 200 pounds of different terrain for many hours .
there are many places in the world , and we &apos;ve heard a lot of them whose problem is not too big a choice .
his flexible design allows you to go deep , crawl and lead to highly agile movements .
it feels what i want to do , where i want to go and then increase my strength and persistence .
we &apos;re so far to introduce with our industrial partner this device , this new exoskeleton this year .
so it &apos;s true .
let &apos;s now take a look at the wheelchair driver , something that i &apos;m particularly passionate about .
there are 68 million people who are estimated worldwide in the wheelchair .
that &apos;s about one percent of the population .
and that &apos;s actually a conservative estimate .
we &apos;re often talking about very young people with spinal cord injuries , who were hit by the flower of their lives -- 20s , 30s , 40s -- the fate hit , and the wheelchair is the only option .
but it &apos;s also about the aging population , the number is multipliing .
their problem is they have too little .
and pretty much the only option -- when it comes to a stroke of the brain , or other complications -- is the wheelchair .
and so it &apos;s been 500 years , by the way , since i have to say , very successful introduction .
so we thought we could start writing a whole new chapter in mobility .
now let me introduce you to elegs , which is carried by amanda boxtel , which suffered a spinal cord injury 19 years ago , which has come to the conclusion that it couldn &apos;t run for 19 years and so far .
thank you .
as i said , amanda is wearing our elegs .
it has sensors .
his completely non-invasive sensors in the crutches that send signals back to our onboarding computer that &apos;s attached here on her back .
here are also batteries , the engine engine is on its hips , as well as their cushions , which they move forward in this very smooth and very natural gangart .
i was 24 years old and in the best form , when a monstrous pink tree was paralyzing me .
so the things i &apos;m talking about are a strange problem of modern , rich , western societies .
in a fraction of a second , i lost every feeling and every movement below my basin .
not long after that , a doctor came to my hospital room , and he said , &quot; amanda , you &apos;ll never be able to go back . &quot;
and that was 19 years ago .
he &apos;s stealing every five hopes from my consciousness .
adaptive technologies have allowed me to learn to ski again , climb and even ride with my hands .
but nothing was invented that would let me go again , so far .
thank you .
as you can see , we have the technology , we have the platforms to meet and discuss with them .
it &apos;s in our hands , and we have all the potential here to change the lives of future generations -- not just for the soldiers , or for amanda here and all the wheelchair drivers , but for everyone .
thank you .
and what &apos;s so frustrating and angry is that steve levitt told you yesterday about how these expensive and hard to install car seats don &apos;t help . it &apos;s a waste of money .
at home in new york , i &apos;m the head of the development department of a nonprofit organization called robin hood .
if i don &apos;t fight poverty , i &apos;m fighting as a fireman for a volunteer trigger for the fire .
well , in our city , where volunteers were supporting a highly skilled professional firing department , you have to be in the field quite early to be able to mix .
i remember my first fire .
i was the second volunteer in the burn place , so i had a pretty good chance to go in .
but it was still an arms race against the other volunteers to reach the chief man and find out what our tasks would be .
when i found the main man , he was in a very serious conversation with the home owner , who certainly had one of the worst days of her life .
it was in the middle of the night , and she was standing in the pavement and barefoot under a screen out in the streaming rain while her house was in the flames .
the other volunteer who had just arrived before me -- let &apos;s call him lex luther -- reached the main man first , and was asked to go to the house and save the dog of the owner .
the dog ! i was linguistic .
they threw shiny photos of themselves out of the air , which we would rate as a friendly gesture , and they forgot that these people from the rainforest in their lives had never seen anything two-dimensional .
what i &apos;m telling you is that these expensive , complicated decisions -- it &apos;s not easy that they don &apos;t help .
there was some lawyer or assets manager who could now tell people that he went to a burning house to save a living thing , just because he was five seconds faster than me .
well , i was next .
the main man pushed me around .
he said , &quot; bezos , you have to go to the house .
you have to go up to the fire , and this woman has to get a pair of shoes . &quot;
i swear .
now , not exactly what i had hoped for , but i went out -- the stairs up , down the hallway , past the &quot; real &quot; firemen , who had been pretty much done at this point with the delay , into the bedroom to get a few shoes .
i know what you &apos;re thinking now , but i &apos;m not a hero .
i wore my prey back to the bottom , where i met my enemy and the beloved dog on the front door .
we wore our estimates out to the owner of the house , where , not surprisingly , he got a lot more attention than mine .
they even hurt .
a few weeks later , the fireguard received a letter from the homeowner , in which she was thanking for the brave assignment to rescue her house .
one of the most estimated friendliness : somebody had actually brought her a pair of shoes .
both in my profession at robin hood and my side job as a volunteer fireman , i witness generosity and kindness on a large scale , but i also see acts of kindness and mute of individuals .
and you know what i learned ?
they &apos;re all important .
so when i look around this room and i see people who have either reached a remarkable success or are on their way there , i want to offer the following memory : don &apos;t wait .
don &apos;t wait to make a difference in someone else &apos;s life , until they reached their first million .
if you have something to give , now give it .
use a soup kitchen , clean a park in the neighborhood .
be a mentor .
they make us feel worse about it .
not every day will give us an opportunity to save the lives of a human being , but every day we have the opportunity to change one .
so go ahead ; save the shoes .
thank you .
bruno guissani : mark , mark , come back .
thank you .
i &apos;m just coming back from a community that knows the secret of the progression of humanity .
a place where women lead the ceptor , with sex , say hello , and the game determines the day -- where fun is a serious issue .
and no , it &apos;s not burning man or san francisco .
ladies and gentlemen , their relationship .
this is the world of wild bonobos in the ancient forest of congo .
if one of the things that enables the people of our society to make decisions about the societies in which people have shifted too little choice , not only would the lives of people be improved , but our dignity be improved .
bonobos are together with chimpanzees our closest living relatives .
that means we have a common ancestor , an evolutionary grandmother , who lived about six million years ago .
well , chimpanzees are known for their aggressivity .
but unfortunately , we have emphasized this aspect in the narrative of human evolution .
but bonobos show us the other side of the medal .
as chimpanzees are led by large , scared candles , the bonobo-society is led by empowered females .
they &apos;ve really come up with something , because that leads to a very tolerant society where lethal violence has not been observed .
but unfortunately , bonobos are least well known among the primates .
they &apos;re living in the depths of the congolese urforest , and they &apos;re very hard to observe .
congo is a paradox -- a country of extraordinary biodiversity and beauty , but also the heart of darkness itself -- the scene of a violent argument that has been desert for decades and almost as many lives as the first world war .
economists call this a pareto improvement rating .
it &apos;s not surprising that this destruction also threatens the survival of the bonobos .
meat trading and the decline of the tree is that you couldn &apos;t even fill a stadium with the bonobos remaining -- and even there we &apos;re not sure to be honest .
and yet , in this country of violence and chaos , you can hear a hidden laugh that &apos;s shaking the trees .
who are these relatives ?
we know them as &quot; love instead of war &quot; monkeys , because they have a lot of , including bisexual sex , with changing partners , and rules of conflict and social issues .
i &apos;m not saying that &apos;s the answer to all humanitarian problems -- because the life of bonobos is more than the cama sutra .
bonobos -- like people -- love playing their lives .
play is not just child games .
for us and it &apos;s a fundamental game for connecting relationships and care for tolerance .
and we learn trust and the rules of the game .
income distribution is going to make everybody do better -- not just the poor -- because all this great choice is going to plain us .
play enhances creativity and resilience , and it &apos;s all about generating diversity -- diversity of interactions , diversity of behaviors , diversity of connections .
and when you watch bonobos play , you see the evolutionary origins of human salmon , dance and rituals .
play is the tickle that keeps us together .
now , i don &apos;t know how you play , but i want to show you some unique footage from the wild .
first of all , a bonobo-like ball game -- and i don &apos;t think of football .
so here &apos;s a young female and male in a tracking game .
look at what she &apos;s doing .
this could be the evolutionary origin of , &quot; she grabs it in the eggs . &quot;
just that i think it &apos;s more like it , right ?
yeah !
finally , read this cartoon , and , a sophisticated person , says , &quot; ah ! what does this fish know ?
so sex games are common , both in bonobos and in humans .
and this video is really interesting , because it shows -- and this video is really interesting , because it shows the idea of bringing new elements into play with -- like the testicles -- and also how the game requires both trust and promotes -- while it &apos;s also a tremendous amount of fun .
but the game is a shape-shifter .
play is a shape-shifter , and it can assume a lot of forms that some of them are a little bit quieter , imaginative , curious -- maybe to rediscover the amazing thing .
and i want to show you , this is fuku , a young female , and she plays peaceful with water .
i think the same way that they &apos;re playing alone sometimes , and we &apos;re trusting limits of our inner and outer worlds .
and it &apos;s this playful curiosity that makes us explore and interact , and the unexpected connections that we create are the real nutritional ground of creativity .
this is just a little taste of the insights that bonobos give us in our past and our present .
but they also have a secret to our future , a future in which we need to adapt to increasing challenges , through greater creativity and printing , enhanced cooperation .
the secret is that the game is the key to these skills .
you don &apos;t know anything possible in this goldfish glass . &quot;
in other words , play is our adaptation joker .
in order to successfully adapt to an inconsistent world , we have to play .
but are we going to make the best of our play drive ?
play is not silly .
it &apos;s essential .
for bonobos and people alike , life is not made up of teeth and claws alone .
even if it &apos;s hardly appropriate , game is perhaps the most necessary game .
and so , my primate comrades , let &apos;s embrace this gift of evolution and play together , while we rediscover the creativity of camera and the wonder .
thank you .
i want you to imagine two pairs in the middle of 1979 , exactly the same day , right now , every baby -- okay .
impoverished imagination , a short-sighted view of the world -- and that &apos;s the way i first read it .
so two pairs , each baby .
now , i don &apos;t want you to spend too much time imagining the creation , because if you think about the production all the time , you &apos;re not going to listen to me .
just imagine that for a moment .
and in this scenario , imagine that in one case , the sperm is wearing a y chomosom that &apos;s hitting the x chromosome of the egg .
and in the other case , the sperm carries an x chromosome that hits the x chromosome of the egg .
both of them are viable , both of them light .
we &apos;ll come back to these people later .
in most of my activities , i have two hats .
under a hat , i &apos;m looking at the history of anatomy .
i &apos;m a historian , and in this case , i study people with anatomy -- that is , human bodies , animal bodies -- as they went around with body fluids , with body concepts , as they thought about bodies .
but the more i thought about it , the more i thought the fish knew something .
the other hat that i &apos;ve been doing in my work is the activist , as a patient lawyer -- or , as i sometimes say , as an impatient lawyer -- of people who are patients of doctors .
in this case , i worked with people who have body types , who question social norms .
so for example , i &apos;ve been working with people who are siamesian twins , two people in a body .
i worked with people with dwarfs -- so people who were smaller than usual .
and very often , i &apos;ve been working with intersexual people whose gender is atypical -- so people who don &apos;t have the average male or female body types .
and as a general term , we can use the word &quot; intersexuality . &quot;
intersexuality is in many different forms .
i &apos;m just going to give you a few examples of the possible types of gender variants that don &apos;t correspond to the male or female standard .
in one case , you might have someone with an xy chromosomes base , and the sry gene of the y chomosoms leaves the protogonads that we all have in fetal stations to grow up .
and that &apos;s why the testosterone is in the fetal stages .
they took these photographs from the forest floor , tried to see behind the face or the character , found nothing and concluded that these were business cards of the devil and killed the five missionaries with the spear .
because the truth is , if you break the goldfish glass , so that everything is possible , you have no freedom . you have paralysis .
but because this individual is missing the receptors to recognize the testosterone , the body is not responding to the testosterone .
and this is called androgenic receptor defect .
so a lot of testosterone , but no reaction to that .
as a consequence , the body develops more of the typical female course .
when the child is born , she looks like a girl .
she &apos;s a girl . she &apos;s raised as a girl .
but it takes most of the time to reach puberty and their breasts grow and they develop , but they don &apos;t get their period until somebody gets to the point that there &apos;s something different here .
and they do some tests , and they find that instead of the ovaries and the uterus , she actually has testicles and that she has a y chromosome .
and it &apos;s important to understand that you could actually think of this person as male , but they &apos;re not really .
women , like men , in our bodies , have something called adrenaline acinus .
if you break the goldfish glass , so that everything is possible , you reduce happiness .
they &apos;re in the back of our bodies .
and the side kidneys make androgens that are virilizing hormones .
most women , like me -- i think i &apos;m a typical woman -- i don &apos;t know my actual chromosome , but i think i probably have the typical -- most women like me are actually talking about androgens .
we produce androgen , and we respond to androgens .
the consequence is that somebody like me actually has a brain that was exposed to more androgens than a woman who was born with testicles and has a androgenic defect .
so gender is really complicated ; intersexuals are not just in the middle of the spectrum of gender -- in a sense , they can be distributed across the bandwidth .
another example : a few years ago , i got the phone call from a 19 year-old man who was born a boy , had a friend , had sex with his girlfriend , lived as a man , and he had just found out that he had ovaries and a uterus .
he had an extreme form of an innate side cattle hyperbladder .
he &apos;s got xx chromosome , and in the womb , his side kidneys were so highly active that they basically created a male hormone environment .
and as a consequence , his genitals were male , his brain was exposed to the more typical male part of the hormone spectrum .
they increase the paralysis and they lower happiness .
and when he was born , he looked like a boy -- no one knew anything .
and only when he got 19 years old did he get enough medical problems , actually , because he was internally menstruating that the doctors found out that he was female inside .
okay , just a quick example of a variation of intersexuality .
some people with xx chromosomes are developing something called ovotestis , which is covering ovarian tissue from high tissue .
we don &apos;t know exactly why this is happening .
so gender can occur in many different varieties .
the reason why kids with this kind of body -- whether it &apos;s dwarf or siamesian twins , whether it &apos;s intersexually -- surgeons are often adapted to the norm is not because it would be an advantage for their physical health .
in many cases , these people are completely healthy .
the reason why they often do different kinds of surgical interventions is because they threaten our social categories .
typically , our system is based on the idea that a certain anatomic transfer is going to be with a certain identity .
everybody needs a goldfish glass .
so we have the concept that being a woman is about having a female identity ; being a black person is supposed to have an african anatomy in terms of their own story .
so we have this horribly simplistic idea .
and when we &apos;re faced with a body that actually represents something very different for us , it confuses us in terms of these categorizations .
so we have a lot of romantic ideas about individualism in our culture .
and our nation is really based on a very romantic concept of individualism .
now you can imagine how amazing it is when children are born , who are two people in a body .
where i had experienced most of the excitement recently , the south african runner caster semenya last year , whose gender was challenged at the leichatlethic world cup in berlin .
a lot of journalists called me to ask , &quot; what test are you going to do that tells us if caster semenya is female or male ? &quot;
and i had to explain to the journalists that there &apos;s no test .
we now know that gender is complicated enough that we have to admit that nature doesn &apos;t draw a line between male and female , or between male and intersexually and intersexually and intersexually ; in contrast , we are the ones that pretend this line as natural .
this is almost limited to complete security -- possibly for the fish , definitely for us .
so we have a situation like this , where , the further our science continues , we have to admit to the more that these categories that we thought were stable anatomic categories that made very simple arrangements to create permanent identity categories are much more disruptive than we thought .
and that &apos;s not just in terms of gender .
it &apos;s also true of race , which turns out to be much more complicated than our terminology has approved .
in our view , we went into all sorts of inconvenient areas .
for example , we &apos;re looking at the fact that we have at least 95 percent of our dna with chimpanzees .
what should we do with the fact that we &apos;re different from them by just a few nucleotides ?
as we continue to push our science forward , we &apos;re getting increasingly into a zone of discomfort , where we need to recognize that the simplistic categories that we &apos;ve had are probably too simple .
we see this in all sorts of different parts of human life .
one of the areas in which we see this as a contribution , in our culture today , in today &apos;s united states , are the fighting over the beginning and the end of life .
we have difficult conversations about where a body becomes human , so that it has a different right than fetal life .
but the deflection of a metaphorical goldfish glass is a recipe for misery , and , i suspect , disaster .
we have very difficult conversations today -- maybe not as public as in medicine -- about the question of when someone is dead .
our ancestors used to never have that hard to fight with the question of when someone was dead .
you &apos;ve kept a feather under your nose , and when it moved , you haven &apos;t buried it yet .
if it didn &apos;t move , it was buried .
but today we &apos;re in a situation where we &apos;re taking people from vital organs and planting them to other people .
and as a result , we catch ourselves in the fight with the really difficult question of when someone is dead , and that brings us into a really difficult situation where we don &apos;t have as simple categories as we used to .
now you might think that the whole breakdown of categories would make someone like me really happy .
i &apos;m a political progressive , i defend people with unusual bodies , but i have to admit , it makes me nervous .
to understand that these categories are really much more insecure than we thought i was excited .
and it makes me excited about democracy in terms of consideration .
thank you very much .
so to tell you about this tension , i have to first know that i &apos;m a big fan of the founding fathers .
i know they were racists , i know they were sexists , but they were great .
i find that they were so brave and so strong , and so radical , in what they did , that every few years , i found myself looking at the malignant musical in 1776 , and it &apos;s not because of the music that is absolutely forgotten .
it &apos;s because of what happened in 1776 with the founding fathers .
the founding fathers , in my view , were the original anatomic activists , and that &apos;s why .
what they proved was an anatomic concept , and they replaced it through another one that was radically and beautiful , and 200 years for us to scale .
as you all remember , our founding fathers rejected the concept of monarchy , and the monarchy was basically based on a very simplified concept of anatomy .
the rulers of the old world had no concept based on dna , but they had a concept of birth right .
they had a concept of blue blood .
they thought that people who had political power should have this political power because of the inherited bloodline from the grandfather to the son and so on .
you know , i talked about some of these projects before , about the human genome and what that might mean , and about the discovery of new groups of genes .
the founding fathers rejected this idea and replaced it through a new anatomic concept , and this concept said that all people were created equally .
they novellized the field of play , and they decided that anatomically , the commonalities counted , not the differences . and that was very radical .
now , they did this partly because they were part of an enlightening system where two things grew together .
democracy grew , but at the same time , science grew .
if you look at the story of the founding fathers , it &apos;s clear that many of them were very interested in science , and they were interested in a concept of a naturalist world .
they went away from explanations of supernatural species , and proven things like a supernatural concept of power , where the transmission is based on a very vague concepts of birth rights .
they moved to a naturalist concept .
and for example , if you look at the declaration of independence , they &apos;re talking about nature and the god of nature .
they &apos;re not talking about god and the nature of god .
they &apos;re talking about the power of nature to tell us who we are .
in fact , we &apos;re starting from a new point : we &apos;ve digitized biology , and now we &apos;re trying to get from the digital code to a new phase of biology by designing and building new life .
and as part of that , they gave us a concept that was about anatomic commonalities .
and so they &apos;ve been preparing the future civil rights movement in a really wonderful way .
they didn &apos;t think about it that way , but what they did for us was great .
so what happened years after that ?
for example , women who aspired to the election right , the concept of the founding fathers , which says that anatomic commonality is more important than the anatomic difference , and said , &quot; that we have a uterus and egg sticks as a difference , that we should not have the right to vote , the right to own ownership , etc . &quot;
and women argued that successfully .
the next one was the successful civil rights movement , where we saw people like sojourner truth , who spach , &quot; am i not a woman ? &quot;
we find men in the marching rows of citizenship movement saying , &quot; i &apos;m a man . &quot;
again , people of different skin color based on anatomical similarities from anatomic differences , again , successfully .
we see the same thing with the disabled rights movement .
we &apos;ve always tried to ask meaningful questions .
of course , the problem is that , as we start to look at all the similarities , we have to start to question why we keep certain separations .
well , well-aware , i want to keep certain separations , anatomically , in our culture .
for example , i don &apos;t want to give a fish the same rights as a human being .
i don &apos;t want to say that we should take away from anatomy .
i don &apos;t want to say that five year-olds should be right to give their understanding of sex or marriage .
so there are some anatomical separations that make sense to me , and that we should keep , i think .
but the challenge is to try to figure out which ones are and why we keep them , and whether they make sense .
so let &apos;s go back to these two creatures that have been put in place at the beginning of the talk .
we have two creatures , both in the middle of 1979 , on exactly the same day .
let &apos;s imagine that one of them , maria , were born three months early , so she was born on june 1 , 1980 .
we go through initiation rituals .
but the waorani didn &apos;t just kill the outsiders with the spear .
what is life ? it &apos;s something that i think a lot of biologists have tried to understand and do it at different levels .
heinrich , on the other hand , is born to the birthday , so he &apos;s born on march 1 , 1980 .
just because of the fact that maria was born three months earlier , she gets all kinds of rights three months before heinrich -- to have the right to accept sex , to choose the right to drink .
heinrich has to wait for all of this , not because he actually has a different biological age , just because of the time of his birth .
we find other features about what their rights are .
heinrich , because you assume he &apos;s male -- although i didn &apos;t tell you he &apos;s mit xy -- because you assume he &apos;s male , he can now be drawn in , which maria doesn &apos;t have to worry about .
but maria , in all states , can &apos;t perceive the same right that heinrich has in all states , and that is the right to marry .
heinrich can marry a woman in any state , but maria can only married a woman in a few states today .
so we have these permanent anatomic categories that are problematic and questionable in many ways .
and for me , the question is : what are we going to do , because our science makes such advances in anatomy , that we need to get to a point where we need to admit that a democracy based on anatomy could fall apart ?
i don &apos;t want to give up science , but at the same time , it feels like science is self-sufficient .
we tried different approaches to simplify it down to the minimum components .
so where do we go ?
it seems like our culture is taking a kind of pragmatic posture : &quot; well , we have to draw a line somewhere , so we &apos;re going to pull it somewhere . &quot;
but a lot of people get caught in a very strange position .
so for example , texas , at one point , decided that marrying a man means you don &apos;t have a y chromosome , and marrying a woman means you have a y chromosome .
now in practice , people are not tested on their chromosome .
but it &apos;s also very bizarre , because of the story that i started to tell you about the androgenic defect .
if we look at one of the founding fathers of modern democracy , dr. martin luther king , he offers us a kind of a solution in his &quot; i have a dream . &quot;
he says we should judge people not for &quot; their skin color , but for the quality of their character , &quot; and go beyond anatomy .
and i want to say , &quot; yeah , that sounds like a really good idea . &quot;
but how do you do that in practice ?
we &apos;ve digitized almost 20 years . when we sequenced the human genome , the shift from the analog world of biology to the digital world of computers .
how do you judge people because of their characteristics ?
i also want to point out that i &apos;m not sure that we should distribute rights to people like this , because i have to admit that i know a series of golden retriever that probably deserve social benefits rather than some people i know .
i want to say that i probably know some bright label dogs that are more capable of making more intelligent , more mature decisions about their sexual relationships than some 40-year-olds i know .
so how are we going to operate the question of the characteristics of character ?
it turns out to be really hard .
and part of me is wondering , what if the content of a personality was something that could be machine readable in the future -- through fmri , be made visible ?
do we really want to go this way ?
i &apos;m not sure where we &apos;re going .
what i know is that it seems really important to think about the idea that the united states is leading to think about the questions of democracy .
in our effort for democracy , we &apos;ve done our thing really well , and i think we &apos;d do well in the future .
now we &apos;re trying to ask , can we regenerate life , or can we create new life , from this digital universe ?
we don &apos;t have the situation , as is the case in iran , for example , where a man who is sexually attracted to other men is punished to death , unless he is willing to undergo a gender transformation , in which case he is allowed to stay alive .
these kinds of states don &apos;t exist with us .
i &apos;m glad to say that we don &apos;t have these states -- a surgeon i spoke to a few years ago , who had brought some siamesian twins to separate them , partly to make a name .
but when i telephones with him , and i asked him why he was doing these interventions -- they were highly risky surgeries -- his answer was that in his country , these children would be very poorly treated , and so he had to do it .
i said to him , &quot; well , did you consider political asyl instead of surgery to separate them ? &quot;
the united states has incredible opportunities to allow people to be the ones they are without having to change around the state .
so i think we need to be leaders .
well , just to conclude , i want to realize that i &apos;ve talked a lot about the fathers .
and i want to think about the ways democracy might have looked , or may have looked like if we had more involved the mothers .
and i want to say something that &apos;s a little bit radical for a feminist , and that is , i think there might be different kinds of insights that are from different kinds of anatomy , especially when people use group thinking .
this is the map of a small organism , mycoplasma geitalium , which has the smallest genome of a species that can replicate itself in the lab , and we &apos;ve tried to see if we can do that with a smaller genome .
for years , because i &apos;ve been interested in intersexuality , i &apos;ve also been interested in research in gender differences .
and one of the things that i found really interesting is the difference between men and women in terms of how they think and act in the world .
what we &apos;ve learned from cross-cultural studies is that women , on average -- not everyone , but on average -- tend to give a lot of attention to complex social relationships and care to people who are vulnerable within the group .
and that &apos;s why , when we think about it , we have an interesting situation .
years ago , when i was a graduate student , one of my graduate students asked me , who knew my interest in feminism -- i looked at myself as a feminist , so it &apos;s still -- a really strange question .
he said , &quot; tell me what &apos;s female about feminism . &quot;
and i thought , &quot; well , that &apos;s the stupidest question i &apos;ve ever heard .
feminism is about solving stereotypes about gender , so feminism is not female .
but the more i thought about his question , the more i thought there could be something female in feminism .
this is to say that there could be something , on average , where female brains are different from male brains , which makes us more aware of highly complex social relations , and more aware of the protective needs .
we &apos;ve managed to get about a hundred genes from the 500 or so that are here .
so where the founding fathers were extremely concerned about figuring out how to protect individuals from the state , it &apos;s possible that if we put more mothers into this concept , we get more of a concept of not just how to protect each other , but how to care for each other .
and maybe it &apos;s where we need to go in the future when we &apos;re going to have democracy beyond anatomy -- less than thinking about the individual body in terms of identity and thinking more about relationships .
so that if we as people try to make a more perfect connection , we think about what we can do for each other .
thank you .
i &apos;m jessi , and this is my suitcase .
but before i show you what i have in it , i &apos;m going to make a very public confession , and that is , i &apos;m obsessed with outfits .
i love to find , at every chance , a different colorful , crazy outfit , and also photographing and blogging lately .
but i don &apos;t buy anything new .
i get all my clothes from the second hand in flowing markets and second-hand shops .
ooh , thank you .
but if we look at this metabolic map , which is very simple , compared to ours , trust me , that &apos;s simple , but if we look at all these genes that we can eliminate one after another , it &apos;s very unlikely that this would lead to a living cell .
second-hand shopping allows me to reduce the impact of my guardian on the environment and also the money market .
i meet all kinds of great people ; my dollars usually serve for a good purpose ; i look pretty unique ; and it makes shopping my personal searching .
i mean , what am i going to find today ?
will it be my size ?
am i going to like the color ?
will it cost less than 20 dollars ?
when all the answers are yes , i feel like i &apos;ve won .
i come back to my suitcase , and i &apos;ll tell you what i put in here for this exciting week at ted .
i mean , what does anybody bring with so many outfits ?
so i &apos;m going to show you exactly what i brought with me .
so we decided that it &apos;s the only way forward to synthesize this chromosome , which allows us to vary the individual components and ask some of these fundamental questions .
i brought seven underpants with me , and that &apos;s all .
underwear for exactly one week is all i did in my suitcase .
i &apos;ve bet that if i came to palm springs , i would find anything else that i might want to wear .
and since you haven &apos;t heard about me as the woman who &apos;s walking around here at ted in your underwear -- that means i found a few things .
and i really want to show you my outfits this week .
does that sound good ?
while i &apos;m doing that , i &apos;m going to give you some of the lessons that i believe it or not , that i &apos;ve learned from these adventures to wear nothing new .
let &apos;s start with sunday .
i call this the bright tiger .
you don &apos;t have to spend a lot of money looking great .
and so we started asking , can we synthesize a chromosome ?
you can almost always look great for less than 50 dollars .
this whole outfit , including the jacket , cost me 55 , and it was the most expensive piece that i was wearing all week .
monday : color is something powerful .
it &apos;s almost physiologically impossible to be miserable when you &apos;re wearing light red pants .
if you &apos;re happy , you attract other happy people .
tuesday : adaptation is totally overrated .
i spent a lot of my life trying to be myself and adapt at the same time .
just be who you are .
if you surround yourself with the right people , you &apos;re not just going to understand it , you &apos;re going to appreciate it .
wednesday : embrace your inner child .
is it possible for chemistry to create these really big molecules , which has never been done before ?
sometimes people tell me i looked like i was dressed up , or i remember her seven-year-olds .
and i like to smile and say , &quot; thank you . &quot;
thursday : self-confidence is the key .
if you think you look good in something , it &apos;s almost safe .
and if you think you don &apos;t look good in something , you &apos;re probably right .
i grew up with a mother who taught me the day after day .
but it wasn &apos;t until i turned 30 that i really understood what that means .
and i &apos;m going to summarize that for you for a second .
if you believe that you &apos;re inside and outside , you &apos;re a wonderful person , there &apos;s nothing you can &apos;t wear .
so there &apos;s no excuse for someone in this audience .
they drilled through each other .
and , if we can do that , can we start the chromosome ?
we should be able to rock anything we want .
thank you .
friday : a universal truth -- five words : golden pailers fit to everything .
and finally , saturday : developing a very unique , personal style is a great way to tell the world something about you without having to say a word .
it was proven to me over and over again when people came to me this week just because of what i was wearing , and i had great conversations .
obviously , that &apos;s not going to fit everything in my tiny suitcase .
so before i go home to brooklyn , i &apos;m going to donate it all again .
because the lesson that i &apos;m trying to learn this week itself is that it &apos;s okay to let go .
i don &apos;t have to put these things emotionally , because right around the corner , there will always be another crazy , colorful , radiant outfit waiting for me if i have a little bit of love in the heart and search for it .
thank you very much .
a chromosome , by the way , is just a piece of incorporated chemical material .
thank you .
good afternoon , all together .
i have something here that i want to show you .
think of this as a visual point , as a flying point of view .
that &apos;s what we call perceptual design in our lab .
let me tell you a little bit about it .
now , if you take this picture -- i &apos;m originally italian , and every boy in italy is growing up with this picture in his room , but the reason i &apos;m showing you this is that something very interesting happened in the formula one in the last few decades .
some time ago , if you wanted to win a formula 1 , you took your budget and you put your money on a good driver and a good car .
and if the car and the driver were good enough , they won the race .
now today , if you want to win a race , you actually need something like this -- something that monitors the car in real time , has a few thousand sensors that pass the information out of the car , and then pass that information to the system , and then process it , and then use it to send back decisions to this car and change things in real time as information is collected .
our steps in digitizing life were exponential .
this is what you would call , in engineering teams , a real-time control system .
and basically , it &apos;s a system that &apos;s made of two parts -- a sensing part and a reacting part .
what &apos;s interesting today is the real-time control systems begin to emerge in our lives .
our cities , in the last few years , have just been equipped with networks and electronics .
they become computers in the open .
and as a free-free computer , they start to react in a different way , they &apos;re perceived and driven .
when we make cities , it &apos;s actually a big deal .
just by the way , i want to mention that cities are only two percent of the world &apos;s land , but 50 percent of the world &apos;s population is there .
they &apos;re 75 percent of the energy consumption -- up to 80 percent of the co2 emissions .
so if we do something with the cities , it &apos;s a big deal .
our ability to write genetic code has been evolving very slowly , but it &apos;s still increasing , and our final point would now be on an exponential curve .
beyond the cities , all of this perceive and drive into objects of everyday life .
this is from an exhibition that paola antonelli organizes for moma later in the year , during the summer .
it &apos;s called &quot; jump with me . &quot;
now all of our objects , our environment , are beginning to speak back to us .
in a sense , it &apos;s almost as if every atom is out there becoming both of them , a sensor and a driver .
and that radically changes the interaction that we humans have out with our environment .
in a way , it &apos;s almost like the old dream of michelangelo ...
you know , when michelangelo shaped the moses , it means that at the end of the day , he took the hammer and threw it on moses -- in fact , you can still see a little spot underneath -- and said , &quot; perché non parli ? why don &apos;t you talk ? &quot;
well , today , our environment begins for the first time to answer us .
i &apos;m just going to show you a few examples -- again , the idea of perceiving and driving our environment .
we started this 15 years ago .
let &apos;s start to perceive .
now the first project i want to show you is actually one of the first of our labs .
it came out four and a half years ago in italy .
and what we were doing was actually using a new kind of network that was used all over the world -- this is a mobile phone network -- and using anonymous and aggregated information from this network , which is now being collected from the operator to understand how the city works .
the summer was a happy summer -- 2006 .
it was when italy won the football world cup .
some of you will remember , it was when italy played against france , and then at the end of it , the head shock .
and anyway , italy won at the end .
now look at what happened that day , just watching the activity that happens in the network .
here you see the city .
it actually took a few years to start with a bioethical review before we did the first experiments .
you see in the middle the colosseum , the tiver .
in the morning , before the game .
you see the timeline up there .
early afternoon , people here and there , who are calling and moving .
the game starts -- silence .
france makes a gate . italy makes a gate .
half-time , people make a short call , go to the bathroom .
second half-time . end of the normal game .
first extension , second .
zidane , in a moment of the headrest .
it turns out that dna synthesization is very difficult .
italy wins . yeah .
well , that night , everybody went to the center to celebrate .
they saw the great impact .
the next day , everybody went to the center to meet the team of seven and the prime minister at the same time .
and then everybody went down .
you see the picture of the place , about co massimo , where , since the roman time , people go to celebrate -- to have a big party , and you see the impact at the end of the day .
now , this is just one example of how we can feel the city today in a way that we couldn &apos;t do a few years ago .
just a different example of feeling : this is not about people , it &apos;s about things that we use and consume .
well , today we know everything about where our things come from .
this is a map that shows you all the chips that a mac computer is made of , how they came together .
there are tens of thousands of machines around the world that can make small pieces of dna , 30 to 50 letters long , but it &apos;s a degenerative process , so the longer you make a piece , the more errors happen .
but we know very little about where things go .
so in this project , we actually designed some small markers to track the trash as it goes through the system .
so we started with some volunteers who helped us , a little over a year ago , in seattle , to tag the things that they threw away -- different kinds of things , as you can see -- things that they would throw away anyway .
then we have the little chips , the little brands , glued on the trash , and started tracking it .
here are the results that we just got .
from seattle ...
after a week .
with this information , we realized that there &apos;s a lot of inefficient in the system .
we can actually do the same things with less energy .
the data was not available before .
so we had to develop a new method where we could put these little pieces together and correct the mistakes .
but that &apos;s what happens to a lot of unuseful transportation and complicated things .
but the other thing is that we believe that if we see every day , that the cup that we throw away doesn &apos;t just disappear that it &apos;s still somewhere on the planet .
and the plastic bottle that we &apos;re throwing away every day is still there .
and if we were to show that to people , then we can make a behavioral change .
so this is the reason for this project .
my colleague at mit , assaf biderman , could give you a lot more sense of and tell you the many other wonderful things that you can perceive , but i &apos;d like to talk about the second part that we discussed at the beginning , and that &apos;s the concrete of our environment .
and the first project is something we did a few years ago in zaragoza , spain .
it started with a question of the mayor who came to us and said that spain and south europe have a beautiful tradition of using water in public places as part of architecture .
and the question was : how could you connect technology , new technology ?
and one of the ideas that was given at mit in a workforce was , imagine these tubes , and valves , magnet valves , folds that open and close .
this was our first attempt , starting with the digital information , the genome phi x 174 .
they create something like a water curtain with data points of water .
if these images fall down , you can write on them , you can display patterns , images , text .
and you can approach him , and he &apos;s going to open up to let you jump through , as you can see in this picture .
well , we introduced the mayor of belhole .
he loved it very much .
and we got the mission to design a building in the entrance of the expo .
we called it the digital water pavillion .
the whole building was made of water .
there are no doors or windows , but if you approach it , it will open up and let it in .
the roof was also covered with water .
54 percent of deaths happened by drilling through .
it &apos;s a little virus that kills bacteria .
and if it &apos;s windy , if you want to reduce the syringe , you can actually leave the roof down .
or you could close the building , and the whole architecture , as in this case , you know , these days , when you drive down the roof , you get pictures of people who were there and say , &quot; you &apos;ve destroyed the building . &quot;
no , they didn &apos;t destroy the building , it &apos;s just that architecture almost disappears .
here &apos;s how the building works .
you see the person who wonders what &apos;s going on inside .
and here you see me , when i was trying to test the sensors that opened the water , not being wet .
well , i should tell you what happened one night when all the sensors stopped working .
but actually , that night , it was a much more fun one .
all the kids from zaragoza came to the building , because the way they played with the building was very different .
no longer a building that would open up to let them in , but a building that still had breaks and holes in the water , you had to jump now without getting wet .
we made little pieces , we made a error correction , and we had a dna molecule of about 5,000 letters .
and that was , for us , very exciting , because as architects , engineers , as designers , we always think about how the people who use the things that we design .
but the reality is always unpredictable .
and that &apos;s the beauty of creating things that are used and interacting with people .
so here &apos;s a picture of the building with the physical dots , the data points of water and the projections on it .
and this is what got us thinking about the following project that i &apos;m going to show you now .
imagine these images could really start to fly .
imagine if you could have little helicopters flying through the air , and each of them with a little frame of change -- almost like a cloud that can move through the room .
here &apos;s the video .
imagine a helicopter , like the one you saw earlier , that moves with others , completely synchronized .
you can have this cloud .
the exciting phase came when we took this piece of incorporated chemical and put it into a bacterium , and the bacteria started reading the genetic code and made viral particles .
you can have a kind of flexible screen or display , like this -- a smooth formation in two dimensions .
or irregular in three dimensions , where what changes is not the light , the position of the images .
they can play with different species .
imagine the screen could just appear in different formats or sizes in different solutions .
but then the whole thing could be just a 3d cloud of points that you can go to and that you can move through , that you can look at from many , many directions .
here you see a real flyfire-controller coming down to form a smooth v like a before .
when you turn on the light , it looks like this , so it &apos;s the same as we saw before .
imagine that every single one of people is being controlled .
it could have a impulse that comes from people , from people &apos;s movements or something like that .
i want to show you something too first here .
the viral particles were then released from the cells and came back and killed e. coli .
we &apos;ve been working with roberto bolle , one of the best ballet dancers of our time -- the étoile at the metropolitan theater in new york and the scale in milan -- we &apos;ve taken his movements in 3d to use them as a impulse for the flyfire .
here you see roberto dancing .
on the left-hand side , you see the images , the different prisoners &apos; impressions .
it &apos;s simultaneously a real-time 3d scan and a motion shot .
so you can understand the whole movement .
you can do this all the time .
but then once we have all the images , you can play with it and play with color motion and motion .
we want to use that as a possible impulse for the flyfire .
i want to show you the latest project we &apos;re working on .
it &apos;s something we &apos;re working on for the london olympics .
i was talking to the oil industry recently , and they said they were doing this model very closely .
it &apos;s called the cloud -- the cloud .
the idea is , again , imagine what we &apos;re doing to people to do something and to change the environment -- almost something we call a cloud movement , to move a scheme , but with a cloud .
imagine that anyone can give a little donation for a picture point .
i think that the remarkable thing that happened in the last few years , the last decade , is that we &apos;ve moved from a physical world to a digital world .
this has digitized everything , knowledge , and makes it available through the internet .
today , for the first time -- and the campaign of obamas has shown this -- we can move from the digital world , from the self-organizing forces of the networks to the physical world .
that can be , in our case , that we use it to design and create a symbol .
that means something that &apos;s built in the city .
but tomorrow it can be to face the challenges that are coming -- think about climate change or co2 emissions -- how can we move from the digital world to the physical .
so the idea is that we actually include the people in which they do things together , collectively .
they laughed more than you do here .
the cloud is a cloud of images again , in the same way that a cloud is a cloud of particles .
and these particles are water , while our cloud is a cloud of images .
it &apos;s a physical structure in london , but it &apos;s covered with images .
they can move inside and have different kinds of experiences .
you can actually look at it from the bottom , share the most important moments for olympics in 2012 and beyond , and use it as a kind of connection to the community .
so both the physical cloud in the sky and something you can go to the top , like london &apos;s new mountain summit .
you can go in .
and a kind of digital light bulb at night -- but most importantly , a new kind of experience for anyone who wants to go to the top .
thank you .
as an artist , i &apos;m very interested in the context .
so we think that this is a situation in software that can actually build your hardware in a biological system .
through my work , i &apos;m trying to express that people are not separate from nature , and that everything is connected to each other .
the first time i was in antarctica , almost 10 years ago , where i saw my first iceberg .
i got awe .
my heart was racing , i was dizzy while i was trying to grab what was in front of me .
the iceberg around me raced almost 60 meters out of the water , and i could only wonder that this was a snowflake on another snowflake , year after year .
iceberg is born as a calf of a glacier , or by breaking out of ice sheets .
every iceberg has its own individual personality .
they are clearly interacting with their environment and their experience .
some people refuse to give up and cling to the bitter end , while others don &apos;t stop it and collapse in a dramatic passion .
if you look at an iceberg , it &apos;s easy to think that they &apos;re isolated , separated and alone , as we often see people .
but we wanted to go even further . we wanted to build a whole bacterial chromosome . it has more than 580,000 letters of genetic code . so we thought we &apos;d build it in cassette tapes the size of the virus that we could vary the size of the cassette tapes to understand what the individual components of a living cell are .
but the truth is far from it .
as an iceberg melts , i breathe its pre-time atmosphere .
as the iceberg melts , it releases minerally rich drinking water that feeds a lot of life forms .
i &apos;m going to go through my footage of these icebergs as if i &apos;m making portraits of my ancestors , in the sense that they exist in these individual moments , and they will never exist again .
it &apos;s not a death when you melt ; it &apos;s not an end , it &apos;s a continuation of your path along the life cycle .
part of the ice in the iceberg that i &apos;m photographing is very young -- a few thousand years old .
and part of the ice is more than 100,000 years old .
the last images i &apos;d like to show you are a iceberg that i photographed in kekertsuatsiak in greenland .
very rarely , you &apos;re actually witnessing a rolling iceberg .
so here you see it .
design is the key , and if you want to start with digital information in the computer , that digital information has to be really wrong .
on the left you see a little boat .
that &apos;s about five meters long .
please watch the shape of the iceberg and where it is on the water line .
you can see here , he &apos;s starting to roll , and the boat has moved to the other side , the man is standing there .
this is the average size of a greenland iceberg .
it &apos;s about 120 feet out of the water , or 40 meters .
and this video is real time .
and just like that , the iceberg shows you a different side of his personality .
thank you .
my life is really extraordinarily blessed by working on some amazing projects .
when we first sequenced the genome in 1995 , the error rate was one error per 10,000 base pair .
but the coolest thing i &apos;ve ever worked on is this guy .
his name is tempt .
tempt was one of the leading graffiti artists of the 1980s .
then one day , he came back from the walk and he said , &quot; paps , my legs are crabs . &quot;
and that was the outbreak of that as a result .
tempt is completely paralyzed today .
he can only use his eyes .
i was faced with him .
i have a company that makes design and animations , so graffiti is inevitably a complex part of what we admire and pay attention to in the art world .
so we decided to support tony -- tempt -- and support his thing .
we followed the geneaology eight generations back , and we found two cases of a natural death , and when we asked people something about it , they admitted that one of the people had gotten so old that he died because of his age , and we still killed him with the spear .
we found 30 mistakes when we resonated , and if we had used the original sequence , it would never have been possible to go up .
i met with his father and his brother , and i said , &quot; we &apos;re going to give you this money .
what are you going to do with this ? &quot;
and his brother said , &quot; i just want to talk to tony again .
i just want to talk to him again , and i said , &quot; wait a minute , isn &apos;t that -- i saw stephen hawking -- can &apos;t all the paralyzed people communicate with these devices ? &quot;
and he said , &quot; no , only if you &apos;re in the higher social layer and you have a remarkable insurance , you can really do that .
normal people are not available to these devices . &quot;
and i said , &quot; well , how do you communicate ? &quot;
anybody see the film &quot; butterfly and diving bell &quot; ?
this is how they communicate -- this is how their fingers walk along .
i was like , &quot; very archaic , how can that be ? &quot;
part of the design is to create pieces that are 50 letters long that have to overlap with other 50-letter pieces to build smaller sub-units to fit them together .
so i came up with the need to just put out a check , and instead i put a check that i didn &apos;t have the slightest idea of how to fix it .
i was committed to the place , and i was committed to his brother and his father -- saying , &quot; well , my proposal is this : tony &apos;s going to speak , we &apos;re going to get him a device , and we &apos;re going to find a way to make his art again .
because it &apos;s a farce that somebody who &apos;s carrying all of this can &apos;t communicate it . &quot;
so i spoke at a conference a few months later .
i met these people from grl , graffiti research lab , and they have a technology that allows them to project a light on any surface and then draw a laser pointer on it , which is just registering the negative surface .
so they &apos;re moving around and making art installations like this .
they say that all the things that are being shown up there are followed by a life cycle .
and it starts with the gender parts , and then the inoculations come , and then the bush publishing , and the last thing is , people actually do art .
but there was always a life cycle in their presentations .
so i went home and ate with my wife and told her about everything , and we thought , &quot; well , wait a minute , if there &apos;s this technology that you can use your eyes to control things , we should find a way to control a laser , so that he can do graffiti again , that would be brilliant . &quot;
we &apos;ve built unique elements here .
that was the beginning of the journey .
and about two years later , about a year later , after a lot of organization and a lot of things , we achieved some things .
first of all , we &apos;ve been insuring the doors , and we &apos;ve actually got a device for tempt that he can communicate with -- a stephen hawking machine .
that was incredible .
and he &apos;s really extremely funny -- i call him yoda , because you &apos;re talking to him , or you &apos;re getting an email , and you &apos;re like , &quot; i &apos;m so unworthy , this guy &apos;s incredible . &quot;
moreover , we &apos;ve flown in seven programmers from all over the world -- literally all over the world -- home to us .
my wife , my children and i have moved to the garage , and these hackers and programmers and conspiracy theorists and archists have taken over our house .
a lot of our friends thought that we were pretty stupid to do that , and that we came back , and all the images on the walls would be graffitis .
but for over two weeks , we programmed , we went to venice , we went to the beach promenade , my kids were involved , so did my dog , and we created this .
it &apos;s called eyewriter , and you can see the description .
you may have heard that we &apos;ve built watermarks .
this is a cheap sunglasses that we bought on the beach-promenade of venice , a little bit of copper wire and a few things from the construction market and the electronics trade .
we took a ps3 camera , we dismantled it , we put it on a led light , and now we have a device that &apos;s freely available -- you can build it yourself , we provide the code for free , you can download the software for free .
so we &apos;ve created a device that &apos;s completely free of constraints .
no insurance can make itself squeeze .
no hospital .
now , any paralyzed person can actually communicate or draw with their eyes alone .
thank you .
thank you very much , that was incredible .
so at the end of the two weeks , we went back to the tempt room .
i love this picture , because it &apos;s the room of somebody else , and that &apos;s his room .
think about it : we have a four-letter code : a , c , g and t .
now there &apos;s all this fame before the great unveiling .
and after over a year of planning , two weeks of programming , nudelparties and enveloped nights , tony drew for the first time after seven years .
and this is an amazing picture , because this is his life support system , and he looks beyond his life support system .
we got his bed tied up so he can see out .
we set up a projector against a wall of the parking lot in front of the hospital .
and he drew again for the first time , in both his family and friends -- and you can only imagine what a sense that was in the parking lot .
and luckily , we also had to break into the parking lot , so we felt right as part of the spray scene .
at the end of it , he sent us an email with this content : &quot; for the first time in seven years , i &apos;ve drawn something .
i feel like i was pushed underwater , and finally someone grabbed down and pulled my head up so i can breathe . &quot;
isn &apos;t that overwhelming ?
triplets of these letters -- these letters code about 20 amino acids , and here &apos;s a single purpose for each of these amino acids .
this is something like our campfire .
that keeps us up and keeps us evolving .
and we still need to improve a lot of this device .
it &apos;s an amazing device , but it &apos;s a magic board the same .
and someone who has such artistic potential deserves so much more .
so we &apos;re trying to figure out how to do it better , faster and stronger .
since that time , we &apos;ve been getting all kinds of recognition .
we &apos;ve won some prices .
remember , it &apos;s free , none of us deserve of it .
it all comes from our own pockets .
so we can use the genetic code to write our words , sentences , thoughts .
so the awards were , &quot; oh , that &apos;s fantastic . &quot;
armstrong twittered about us , and then in december , the time-magazine honored us as one of the 50 best inventions in 2010 , which was really great .
the coolest thing about it is -- and that closes the whole circle -- that there &apos;s this april , when moca is in the inner city of los angeles , there &apos;s an exhibition called &quot; art of the streets . &quot;
and there will be pretty much the toughest representatives of the street art scene -- banksy , shepard fairey , caws -- all these guys will be there .
tempt will be part of the show , which is pretty descending .
so basically , what i &apos;m talking about is , when you see something that &apos;s impossible , make it possible .
everything in this room was impossible -- this stage , this computer , this microphone , the eyewriter -- everything was impossible at some point .
make it possible -- all of you here .
i &apos;m not a programmer , and i &apos;ve never had anything to do with augenerative technology , but i just captured something and surrounded myself with amazing people so that we could put something on the legs together .
and this is a question that every one of you should be wondering about every single day , and every single day that you have something that has to be done , if not now , when ? and if not me , who then ?
initially , we just signed .
thank you .
so , i write for kids , and i &apos;m probably america &apos;s most commonly charged children &apos;s book author .
and i always tell people that i don &apos;t want to get there like a scientist .
you can have me as a farmer , or in leather , but no one has ever elected farmers .
today i want to tell you about circles and revelations .
well , an epiphany is usually something that you find because you &apos;ve dropped it somewhere .
you go around the block and you take it as an epiphany .
this is a painting of a circle .
a friend of mine did it -- richard bollingbroke .
it &apos;s the kind of complicated circle that i want to tell you about today .
some people were disappointed that it was not a poetry .
my circle started in the &apos; 60s at the high school in stow , ohio , where i was the classroom .
i was the one who was beaten in the virgin toilet green and blue every week , until a teacher saved my life .
she saved my life using the toilet in the teacher &apos;s room .
she did that secretly .
she did it for three years .
and i had to get out of town .
i had a thumb , i had 85 dollars , and it struck me to san francisco in california -- i found a lover -- and at the time in the &apos; 80s , i found it important to take a job in aids organizations .
about three or four years ago , in the middle of the night , i got a call from this teacher , woman posts , who said , &quot; i have to see you .
i &apos;m sad that we &apos;ve never met each other as adults .
can you come to ohio , and please come together with the guy that i know you &apos;ve found him .
we built the pieces so that we could just break them down with enzymes , and there are enzymes that repair them and repair them .
and i should mention that i have pancreatic cancer , and that i want you to rush away . &quot;
well , the next day we were in cleveland .
we looked at her , we laughed , we cried , and we knew she had to be in a hospice .
we found one for them , we took them , and we took care of them , and we gave them eight , because it was necessary .
it was something we knew to do .
and just as the woman who wanted to meet me as an adult , met me , she turned into a box of ashes and was put in my hands .
what had happened was that the circle had closed , it had become a circle -- and the revelation i talked about .
the revelation is that death is part of life .
she saved my life , and my partner and i saved her .
and you know , this part of life needs everything that the rest of life needs .
but at the same time , they had a clear knowledge of the forest , which was amazing .
and we started making pieces , starting with pieces that included five to seven thousand letters , put them together to make 24,000-letter pieces to put them back together , up to 72,000 .
he needs truth and beauty , and i &apos;m so happy that this has been mentioned so often here today .
he needs the same -- he needs to have love and pleasure . and it &apos;s up to us to give these things .
thank you .
imagine a big explosion as you go up to 1,000 meters .
imagine an airplane full of smoke .
imagine a power station , the clack , clack , clack , clack , clack , clap , clap , clap , clap .
that sounds frightening .
well , i had a unique place that day ; i was sitting on 1d .
i was the only one who could talk to the flight companions .
so i looked at them in a moment , and they said , &quot; no problem , we probably got some birds . &quot;
in each step , we produced these pieces in the overshooting so that we could sequence them , because we tried to create a very robust process , which they &apos;re going to see in a minute .
the pilot had already turned the machine , and we weren &apos;t that far away .
you could see manhattan .
two minutes later , three things happened at the same time .
the pilot set up the machine after the hudson river .
that &apos;s not usually the route .
he turns off the drives .
imagine a noisless airplane .
and then he said three words -- the most intuitive words i &apos;ve ever heard .
he says , &quot; provide for the crash . &quot;
i didn &apos;t have to talk to the border staff anymore .
we tried to get to the point of automation .
i could see it in her eyes , there was a horror , life was over .
i want to share with you three things that i &apos;ve learned about myself that day .
i learned that in a moment everything is different .
we have this life plan , we have these things that we want to do in life , and i thought of all the people that i wanted to reach a hand and didn &apos;t , all the fences that i wanted to flick , all the experiences that i wanted and never did .
while i was thinking about it later , i came up with a saying , which is , &quot; i collect bad wine . &quot;
because if the wine is that far and the person is there , i open it up .
i never want to move anything in life .
and that urgency , that goal , has really changed my life .
the second thing that i learned that day -- and that was when we were missing the george washington bridge , pretty much around hair &apos;s width -- i thought , man , there &apos;s one thing i really regret .
i had a good life .
so , this looks like a basketball playoff .
in my own humanity and with my own mistakes , i aspired to get better in everything i was attacking .
but in my humanity , i also gave my ego space .
and i regretted the time i wasted for meaningless things , with people who mean something .
and i thought about the relationship with my wife , with friends , with people .
and after that , when i was thinking about it , i decided to get negative energy out of my life .
it &apos;s not perfect , but it &apos;s much better .
i didn &apos;t argue with my wife for two years anymore .
it feels great .
i &apos;m not trying to be right anymore ; i decide to be happy .
the third thing i learned -- while the internal clock is starting , &quot; 15 , 14 , 13 , counting ... &quot;
when we get to these really big pieces -- over 100,000 base pairs -- they &apos;re not just going to grow in e. coli . it &apos;s going to exceed all the possibilities of modern molecular biology , and so we turned to other mechanisms .
you see the water coming .
i said , &quot; please fly in the air . &quot;
i don &apos;t want this thing to break in 20 parts , as you know from documentaries .
as we fall down , i had this feeling of human dying is not terrifying .
almost like we prepare for it for our lives .
but it was very sad .
i didn &apos;t want to go ; i love my life .
and that sadness really formed in a thought , which is that i just wish one thing .
i just wish i could see my children grow up .
about a month after that , i went to see a performance of my daughter -- first graders , not a lot of artistic talent ...
we knew about a mechanism called the homologist recombination that biology uses to repair dna that can assemble those pieces .
... not yet .
and i celebrate , i cry like a little kid .
and in the world , everything made sense to me .
i realized , at the time , by connecting the dots together , that life is all about being a great father .
more than anything , anything else , my only goal in life is to be a good father .
i became a miracle , not to die that day .
i got another gift , which is to look into the future , and come back and live differently .
my call to all of you who fly today is : imagine that the same thing is happening on your flight -- please don &apos;t -- but imagine , and how would you change ?
what would you do that you upset , because you think you &apos;re there forever ?
how would you change your relationships and the negative energy in it ?
here &apos;s an example of it . there &apos;s an organism called deinococcus radiodurans , which is three million wheels of radiation .
and more than anything else , are you the best parents you can only be ?
thank you .
the idea behind the stuxnet computer worm is pretty straightforward .
we don &apos;t want iran to build the bomb .
the most important post there for the development of nuclear weapons is the uranium incentive facility in nateness .
the gray boxes that you see here are real-time control systems .
now , if we can compromise the systems that control rotation and valves , we can actually create a lot of problems with the centrifuge .
these gray boxes don &apos;t run with windows software ; they &apos;re based on a completely different technology .
but if we can do it , an effective windows virus on a laptop that &apos;s used by a warning engineer to configure this gray box , then we &apos;re in the business .
and that &apos;s the planning behind stuxnet .
you see in the upper field that his chromosome just falls apart .
so we start with a windows dropper .
the use data is transferred into the gray box , damaging the centrifuge and the iranian nuclear energy program is delayed -- assignment .
this is a child &apos;s game , right ?
i want to tell you how we figured that out .
when we started to stuxnet our research six months ago , it was completely unknown what the purpose and purpose of this construction was .
the only thing we knew is very , very complicated in terms of the windows part , the droppery part , made by countless cerol day-flaws .
and it seemed to have something to do with these gray boxes , these real-time control systems .
this attracted our attention , and we started a lab project where we infected our environment with stuxnet , and we looked at this structure .
and then something funny happened .
stuxnet was like a lab rat that didn &apos;t like our cheese -- sniffed on it , but didn &apos;t want to eat it .
12 to 24 hours later , everything has reassembled as it was .
it didn &apos;t make sense in my eyes .
and after experimenting with different kinds of cheese , i realized that this is a targeted attack .
completely focused on a particular goal .
the dropper is actively drifting around the gray box when a special configuration was discovered , even if the special program that &apos;s trying to infect it on this goal .
and if not , then stuxnet doesn &apos;t do anything .
so that really got me interested , and we started working with it , almost around the clock , because i thought , well , we don &apos;t know what the goal is .
it could be , say , a us- american power plant , for example , or a chemical plant in germany .
so we should be able to figure out what the target is .
so we extracted and decommissioned the attack code , and we found that it &apos;s built in two digital warheads -- a smaller and a bigger one .
and we also noticed that they were very professionally constructed by people who had obviously all the insider information available .
we have thousands of organisms that can do that .
they knew any bits and bytes that they had to attack .
they probably even knew the size of the machine operator .
so they knew everything .
and if you &apos;ve already heard that the dropper of stuxnet is complex and high-tech , let me tell you , the user data is a science for itself .
it &apos;s much more sophisticated than anything we &apos;ve ever seen .
here &apos;s an excerpt from this attack code .
we &apos;re talking about -- about 15,000 lines of code .
looks pretty much like old-fashioned assembler language .
and i want to tell you how we were able to get smart from this code .
so what we first were looking for was systems function calls , because we know what they &apos;re doing .
their hunters were able to smell the urine of an animal from 40 steps away and determine what animal species were owned by .
these organisms can be completely dry , they can actually live in a vacuum .
and then we looked for timers and data structures and tried to connect them to the real world -- with potential targets in the real world .
so we needed theories about these targets that we could take or disprove .
in order to make these theories , we remind ourselves that it &apos;s definitely high-level sabotage , it has to be a high-quality goal , and very likely it &apos;s in iran , because most infections have been reported .
well , in this area , there are not several thousand targets .
basically , it goes out to the buschehr nuclear power plant , and the uranium incentive plant in the natch .
so i said to my assistant , &quot; bring me a list of all the experts for centrifuge and power plants from our client tribe . &quot;
and i called them up and tapped their knowledge to compare their expertise to what we found in the code and in the data .
and that worked very well .
so , we were able to connect the little digital head to the rotor control .
the rotor is this moving part within the centrifuge , this black object that you see .
i &apos;m absolutely sure that life can exist and move in space , looking for aquatic conditions .
and when you manipulate the speed of this rotor , you &apos;re actually able to crack the rotor and eventually even explode the centrifuge .
what we &apos;ve also found is that the goal of the attack was actually to make it happen slowly and incredibly -- obviously trying to get warning engineers to despair , so they wouldn &apos;t be able to get behind it quickly .
the big digital head -- we got a glimpse by looking at very precisely data and data structures .
so for example , the number 164 is very sticking out of this code ; you can &apos;t overlook it .
i started working through scientific literature , about how these centrifuges were built in natance , and found that they were structured in so-called cascades , and each cascade contains 164 centrifuges .
so that made sense , it fit together .
and it got even better .
these centrifuges in iran are divided into 15 so-called levels .
and guess what we found in the attack code ?
it &apos;s a almost identical structure .
in fact , nasa showed that there &apos;s a lot of it out there .
so again , this fit really well together .
and this gave us great confidence for what we were studying here .
now , don &apos;t get me wrong , it didn &apos;t just go like that .
these results have been achieved by a couple of weeks of hard work .
and often we just ran into a dead end , and we had to recollect ourselves .
anyway , we found that both digital warheads were actually heading for one and the same goal , but from different directions .
the little head takes over a cascade , and it flips the rotors and slows them down , and the big head comes in with six cascades in interaction and manipulates valves .
so , by and large , we &apos;re very confident that we actually have determined what the goal is .
it &apos;s sovereignty , and it &apos;s just natedness .
so we don &apos;t have to worry that other goals could be hit by stuxnet .
so here &apos;s a picture of the molecule that we made using these processes -- actually , we just used yeast mechanisms with the right design of the pieces , we adjusted them , and yeast automatically assembles them .
here &apos;s something really cool that we discovered -- really kicked me out of the socks .
down there is the gray box , and on the top you see the centrifuge .
now , what this thing does is it catches the incoming values of sensors -- so , for example , printing sensors and vibration sensors -- and it provides legitimate code that &apos;s still going on during the attack , with false data .
and in fact , this false data from stuxnet is already recorded before .
so it &apos;s just like in hollywood movies , where during the chase , the surveillance camera is being fed with before recorded video .
that &apos;s cool , right ?
the idea here , obviously , is not just to overlist the machine operators in the control room .
in fact , it &apos;s much more dangerous and aggressive .
the idea is to overlist a digital security system .
we need digital security systems where a human machine operator can &apos;t respond fast enough .
this is not an electron microscope , it &apos;s a regular microscope .
so in a power plant , for example , if the big steam turbine becomes too fast , you have to open deposit valves within milliseconds .
of course , this can &apos;t be done by a human machine leader .
so this is where we need digital security systems .
and if they &apos;re at risk , then really bad things can happen .
the power plant can explode .
and neither the machine leaders , nor the security system will notice it .
that &apos;s frightening .
but it gets worse .
and what i &apos;m saying now is very important .
think about it . this attack is generic .
it &apos;s such a big molecule that we can actually see it with the light microscope .
it has nothing to do with centrifuge , with uranization .
so , for example , he would work just as well -- in a power plant or in a car factory .
it &apos;s generic .
and you don &apos;t have to -- as the attacker -- you don &apos;t have to put the use data on a usb stick , as we saw at stuxnet .
you could also use ordinary worm technology to spread .
you just have to spread it as far as you can .
and when you do that , you end up with a cyber weapon of mass destruction .
that &apos;s the consequence that we have to face .
so unfortunately , the biggest number of targets for these attacks is not in the middle east .
they &apos;re in the united states , europe and japan .
these are images over a period of six seconds .
so all these green areas , these are the most targeted environments .
we need to face the consequences , and we start to prepare ourselves better .
thank you .
i have a question .
ralph , it &apos;s been reported a lot that people assume that the mossad is the main organization behind it .
is that your opinion ?
okay , you really want to know that ?
yeah . okay .
i think the mossad is involved , but the driving force is not israel .
so the driving force behind it is the cyber-superpower .
this is the publication that we just finished recently .
there &apos;s only one , and these are the united states -- fortunately , fortunately .
because otherwise our problem would be even bigger .
thank you for chasing us a fear of heating . thank you ralph .
i &apos;ve spent the last few years putting myself in situations that are usually very difficult and dangerous at the same time .
i went to jail -- hard .
i worked in a coal mining -- dangerous .
i filmed in war zones -- difficult and dangerous .
and i spent 30 days eating nothing but this -- fun at the beginning , a little hard in the middle , very dangerous at the end .
in fact , i &apos;ve been exposing myself to most of my career , looking for terrible situations , and it &apos;s all just for trying to look at social belts that they &apos;re compelling and interesting , and hopefully in a way , understand what makes them fun and accessible to the audience .
so when i knew i &apos;d come here to look at the world of branding and sponsoring in a tedtalk , i knew i was going to do something a little different .
this is over 580,000 letters of genetic code . it &apos;s the largest molecule with defined structure that has ever been created by people .
some of you may have heard that a few weeks ago , i turned on an ad on ebay .
i sent some facebook messages , some twitter messages , and i gave people the opportunity to get the name rights on my tedtalk 2011 .
really , some happy people and companies , for-profit and non-profit , got the unique opportunity -- because i &apos;m sure chris anderson will never let it go -- to buy the nameless rights on the talk that you &apos;re seeing right now , who didn &apos;t have a title or a lot of content , and didn &apos;t give a lot of clues about what that would actually be .
so what you got was this : your name here is presented : my tedtalk , which you have no idea what the subject is going to be , and which could ever fly you around your ears after content , especially if i had to dumb your company for your participation .
but besides that , it &apos;s a very good media opportunity .
do you know how many people look at these tedtalks ?
a lot .
this is just the working title , by the way .
so despite that warning , i knew that somebody would buy the name rights .
now , if you had asked me this a year ago , i wouldn &apos;t have been able to tell you this with certainty .
it has a molecular weight of over 300 million .
but in the new project that i &apos;m working on , my new film , we &apos;re looking at the world of marketing , of advertising .
as i said , i &apos;ve been in some pretty terrible situations over the years , but nothing could prepare me , nothing could arise me to go into something as difficult and as dangerous as these guys .
you know , i had the idea for a film .
what i want to do is make a film around product placement , marketing and advertising , where the whole film is funded by product placement , marketing and advertising .
and the film will be called &quot; the greatest film ever sold . &quot;
so what happens in &quot; the greatest film ever sold , &quot; is that everything from top to bottom is completely disconnected with brands -- from the front sponsor you &apos;re going to see in the movie , that &apos;s the brand x .
now this brand , the qualcomm stadium , the staples center ...
these people will be connected to the film in eternity forever .
and so the film will study this whole idea -- that &apos;s what ? in eternity , forever ?
i &apos;m a redundant person .
in the early &apos; 80s , i got a really amazing task when my harvard professor asked me if i was interested in going to haiti and infiltrating the secret societies that were the foundation of the strength of duvalier and tonton macoutes and the poison that was used to make zombies safe .
if we were to print it with a writing size of 10 and without any distances , it would encompass 142 pages just to print this genetic code .
that was more to emphasize .
it was &quot; in eternity , forever . &quot;
but we &apos;re not just going to have the brand x as a cover sponsor , but we &apos;re going to make sure that we &apos;re going to sell every category in the movie .
so we might sell a shoe , and it will be the greatest shoe you &apos;ve ever worn ...
the greatest car you &apos;ve ever driven from &quot; the greatest film ever sold &quot; the greatest drink you &apos;ve ever had , a attention from &quot; the greatest film ever sold . &quot;
so the idea is to show , apart from showing that brands are part of life , actually , to get them to fund the film ?
and we actually show the whole process of how it works .
the goal of the whole film is transparency .
you &apos;ll see the whole thing going on in the movie of statements .
so this is the whole concept , the whole film , from beginning to end .
now , how do we start a chromosome ? how do we activate it ?
and i would be happy if ceg was going to help make this happen .
you know , it &apos;s funny , because when i first heard it , it &apos;s the ultimate respect for the audience .
but i don &apos;t know how contagious people are going to be .
do you have a perspective -- i don &apos;t want to use &quot; perspective , &quot; because that has a negative connotation -- but you know how that &apos;s going to evolve ?
how much money is needed to realize that ?
1.5 million .
i think it &apos;s going to be hard to meet them , but i think it &apos;s absolutely worth addressing some really familiar brands .
who knows when the film comes out , we might look like a horde vollidiots .
what do you think the answer will be ?
the answer will probably be no .
obviously , it &apos;s very simple with a virus . it &apos;s much more complicated to deal with bacteria .
but is it a difficult thing to do about the film or a difficult thing for me ?
jk : both .
so ... means not so optimistic .
so , sir , can you help me ? i need help .
i can help .
okay .
fantastic .
we need to think about what brands .
yeah .
if you look at the people you have to deal with ...
it &apos;s also as simple as doing it in eukaryonts as we are : you just take the nucleus out and put another one in , and that &apos;s exactly what you &apos;ve all heard about the cloning .
there are some places that we can turn to .
put the camera out .
i thought , &quot; put the camera out &quot; would mean that we wanted to have a backup conversation .
it turns out that it really meant , &quot; we don &apos;t want to have anything to do with your film . &quot;
and just like that , all these companies disappeared , one after the other .
none of them wanted to have something to do with the film .
i was amazed .
they didn &apos;t want to have anything to do with the project .
and i was confused , because i thought the whole concept of advertising was to present your product to as many people as possible , let as many people see it as possible .
especially in the world today , at this intersection of new and old media and the fragmented media landscape -- it &apos;s not the idea of being in this new exciting medium tool that the masses bring that message .
in archaebacteria , the chromosome is integrated into the cell , but just recently we &apos;ve shown that you can do a complete transplant of a chromosome from one cell to the other and activate it .
no , that &apos;s what i thought .
but you see , the problem was that my idea had a fatal mistake , and that was the following .
in fact , no , that was not the mistake at all .
that wouldn &apos;t have been a problem at all .
that would have been okay .
but what this picture is about is a problem .
see , if you put transparency in google search , this is -- this is one of the first images that seems .
i really like your kind , sergey brin . now .
that was the problem : transparency -- freely from deception and bags , just to discover and to look through ; immediately , characterized by visibility and access to information , especially in terms of business spraying -- the last line is certainly the biggest problem .
you know , we &apos;re hearing a lot about transparency right now .
we cleaned the chromosome of a microbial species . roughly , these two are as far apart as humans and mice . we gave some extra genes so we could choose this chromosome . we decompose it with enzymes to destroy all the proteins . and it was very amazing when we put it in a cell -- and they &apos;ll estimate our very sophisticated graphs here .
our politicians say it , our president says it , even our ceos say it .
but when it comes to the point that it &apos;s supposed to be implemented , something changes .
but why ? well , transparency is scary -- like this strange bear that still breaks .
it &apos;s unpredictable -- like this strange highway .
and it &apos;s also very risky .
what else is risky ?
a whole dish of cool whip .
this is very risky .
so when i started talking to the companies and telling them that we wanted to tell this story , they said , &quot; no , we want you to tell a story .
we want you to tell a story , but we just want you to tell our story . &quot;
the new chromosome went into the cell .
see , when i was a kid and my father caught me lying -- and he &apos;s sitting there looking at me with this view -- he would say , &quot; my son , there are three versions in every story .
there &apos;s your version , there &apos;s my version , and there &apos;s the real version . &quot;
so you see , with this film , we wanted to tell the real version .
but because only one company , one agency was willing to help us -- and that &apos;s because i &apos;ve known john bond and richard kirshentree for years -- i realized that i had to do it alone , i had to deal with the middle man and go right with my team to companies .
so what they suddenly started to understand -- or what i started to understand -- was that when you start talking to these companies , the idea of how your brand is understood is a broad problem .
i have friends making big , gigantic hollywood films , and i have friends making little independent films like me .
and my friends who make big , gigantic hollywood films say that the reason their films are so successful is because of the brand partners they have .
and then my friends who make little independent films say , &quot; well , how do we compete with these big , gigantic hollywood movies ? &quot;
and the film is called &quot; the greatest film ever sold . &quot;
so how exactly are we going to see ban in the movie ?
in fact , we thought that this is the end , but we tried to bring the process a little bit further .
every time i go , and every time i open the medical closet , you &apos;ll see ban deodorant .
and every time i interview somebody , i can say , &quot; are you fresh enough for this interview ?
are they there ? they look a little nervous .
i want to help you calm down .
so maybe you should put a little bit of this before the interview . &quot;
and then we offer one of these great dunes .
either &quot; floral fusion &quot; or &quot; paradise winds , &quot; you &apos;ll have the choice .
we &apos;re going to be equipped for both men and for women -- solid , roll-on , or a stick , whatever .
that &apos;s the short cart .
now i can answer all of your questions and give you an exquisite socket .
this is the main mechanism of evolution here .
we &apos;re a smaller brand .
as you &apos;ve been talking about the smaller films , we &apos;re a challenge as a brand .
so we don &apos;t have a budget like other brands .
so doing things like this -- you know , people remember ban -- that &apos;s kind of why we &apos;re interested .
what words would you describe ban ?
ban is blank .
that &apos;s a great question .
superior technology .
technology is not the way you should describe something that someone is doing under the axes .
we &apos;re talking about bold , fresh .
we find all kinds of species here that have taken a second chromosome , or a third of some place , every time thousands of characteristics in one second , to a species .
i think , &quot; fresh &quot; is a great word that this category really makes something positive , as opposed to &quot; fight smell and moisture . &quot;
it keeps you fresh .
how can we keep them fresh longer -- better fresh , more fresh , three times more fresh .
these things have a more positive effect .
and this is a million-dollar company .
what about me ? what about the printing system ?
i have to talk to the man on the street who are like me , otto normal consumers .
i want you to tell me something about my brand .
how would you describe your brand ?
well , my brand ?
to make sense of this sensation , of course , i had to know something about this remarkable belief of the vodoun , and voodoo is not a cult of the black magic .
so people who think of evolution as a gene that &apos;s going to change at a time has missed a lot of biology .
i don &apos;t know .
i really like beautiful clothes .
1980s revival hits skateral , except on the bathroom day .
all right , what &apos;s the brand gerry ?
unique .
i think the genre , the style i have , is probably dark glamour .
i like a lot of black colors , a lot of gray notes and stuff like that .
but usually i have an accessoire , like sunglasses , or a jewelry and stuff like that .
if dan were a brand , he would probably be a classic mercedes cabrio .
the brand i am is , i would say , the nice fly .
there are enzymes called restriction enzymes that are actually digesting dna .
woman 2 : partly hippie , partly yogi , partly brooklyn-girl -- i don &apos;t know .
man 3 : i &apos;m the museum guy .
i sell schemes all over the country , worldwide .
so i think that &apos;s my brand .
this is my brand in my little , distorted industry .
man 4 : my brand is fedex , because i was out .
man 5 : brand of failed alcohol addicted writers .
is that possible ?
lawyer : i &apos;m a lawyer brand .
i &apos;m tom .
the chromosome that was in the cell has no one ; the chromosomes that we &apos;ve already added in .
well , we can &apos;t all be the tom-brand , but i often see myself at the intersection of dark glamour and reliable flies .
and what &apos;s noticed is that i needed an expert .
i needed somebody who could go into my head , somebody who could really help me understand what they call &quot; brand personality . &quot;
and so i found a company called olson zaltman in pittsburg .
they &apos;ve helped companies like nestle , febrect , hallmark , discover this brand personality .
if you could do it for those , you could certainly help me .
they brought their pictures , right ?
this is me . the first picture is a picture of my family .
just tell me a little bit about how this connects to your thoughts and feelings about yourself .
these are the people who shape my worldview .
it was exposed in the cell , and it recognized the other chromosome as a foreign material , and so we ended up with only one cell with a new chromosome .
tell me about this world .
md : this world ? i think your world is the world you live in -- like people around you , the friends , the family , the way you live your life , the work and so on .
all of these things come and start from a place , and for me , they come and start with my family in west virginia .
what &apos;s the next thing you want to talk about .
next . this was the most beautiful day of my life .
what &apos;s the relationship with the thoughts and feelings about yourself ?
it &apos;s the way i want to be .
i like things that are different .
i like things that are strange . i like strange things .
tell me about the &quot; why &quot; phase -- what does it bring us ?
it stained blue because of the genes that we had added in .
what &apos;s the machete ? what puppetry are you in right now ?
why is it important to reboot ? what is the red ?
tell me a little bit about this part .
a little bit more about you , not you .
what other metamorphosis have you gone through ?
... that doesn &apos;t have to be afraid . what kind of rollercoaster are you in ?
eeeeeeee ! no , thank you .
thank you very much for your patience .
yeah . all right .
yeah , i don &apos;t know what &apos;s going to come out of it .
and after a very short period of time , it had lost all the characteristics of the species and converted completely into a new species based on the new software that we put into the cell .
there were a lot of crazy things going on .
the first thing i saw was this idea that their brand personality has two separate but added pages -- the morgan spurlock brand is an eight-time brand .
they &apos;re very good at it .
and i think there &apos;s almost a contradiction with that .
and i think some companies will just focus on a strength , rather than both .
a lot of companies tend to -- and this is human nature -- to avoid things that they &apos;re not sure about , they &apos;re going to avoid fear , these elements , and they &apos;re going to welcome these , and they &apos;re going to turn them into something positive for themselves , and that &apos;s a terrible chess .
what other brands do that ?
the first one is a classic , apple .
and you can also see it here , target , wii , mini coopers and jetblue .
well , there &apos;s been rotten brands and eight brands , these things that come and go , but a playful , eight brand is a pretty strong thing .
all the proteins changed membranes -- when we read the genetic code , it was exactly what we transferred .
an eightful , playful brand . what &apos;s your brand ?
if somebody asked you to describe your brand identity , your brand personality , how would it be ?
are you an up-attribute ? are you something that brings blood into whales ?
or are they more of a down-attribute ?
are you something a little bit quieter , reservative , more conservative ?
up-attribute are things that are playful , fresh like the fresh prince , timely , adventurous , failing and loving like erol flynn , turning and agile , profit , magical and mystical like gandalf .
or are they more like a down attribute ?
are you mindful and monument like 007 ?
are they established , traditionally , nurturing , protective , compassionate , like oprah ?
are they reliable , stable , family , safe , safe , sacred , considerable and like the dalai lama or yoda ?
it may sound like genomic alchimie , but we can , by shifting software dna , change things quite dramatically .
in the course of the film , we had over 500 companies up and down companies saying no , because they didn &apos;t want to be part of the project .
they didn &apos;t want to have anything to do with this film , because they had no control , no control over the finished product .
but there were 17 brand partners who were willing to get rid of this control , who wanted to do business with someone as mindful and playful as i did , and who eventually enabled us to tell stories that we wouldn &apos;t usually have been able to tell -- stories that a worker would never usually support .
they enabled us to tell the story of neuromarketing , the way we tell the story in this film , that you use mris today to tackle the funnial centers of the brain , both to make advertisements and films .
we went to sao paulo , where foreign advertising has been banned .
in the entire city , for five years , there &apos;s no evidence , no posters , no flyer , nothing .
and we drove in school districts , where companies are making their way into impoverished schools , across america .
the incredible thing to me is that the projects that i got the most feedback from , or where i got the greatest success , are the ones where i directly interacted with things .
and that &apos;s what these brands did .
because they went around the middle man , they went around the agencies , and they said that maybe the agencies don &apos;t really have their interest in mind .
now i &apos;ve argued that this is not the genesis -- this is based on 3.5 billion years of evolution .
i &apos;m going to negotiate directly with the artist .
i &apos;m going to work with him and create something completely different , something that makes people think that our worldview challenges .
and what was it like for you ? what was it successful ?
well , since the film premiered at the sundance film festival , we can look at that .
according to burrelle , the premiere was in january , and since then -- and that &apos;s not even the whole thing -- there were 900 million calls from this film .
this is actually just a two-and-a-half weeks period .
this is just online -- no press , no television .
the film hasn &apos;t been delivered yet .
it &apos;s not even online . it &apos;s not streaming .
it hasn &apos;t come out in other countries .
and i &apos;ve argued that we may be creating a new form of cambrian explosion where there might be massive new education based on this digital design .
well , finally , the film has reached a very big momentum .
and that &apos;s not bad for a project where almost every advertising agency that we talked to has recommended to their clients to let the fingers of it .
one of the things that i believe in is that when you take your opportunity , you take risks , there are opportunities in these risks .
i think if you stop people from that , you get them closer to failure .
i think that if you train your employees to avoid risks , you &apos;re preparing the whole company to get a profit .
i feel that as we move forward , we have to encourage people to take risks .
we need to encourage people not to be afraid of the possibilities that might scare them .
finally , when we move forward , we should welcome fear .
we should put the bear in the cage .
please welcome fear . welcome the risk .
on the contrary , it &apos;s a complex metaphysical view of the world .
why should we do that ?
there &apos;s a big spoon full of each , so we &apos;re going to welcome the risk .
and finally , we should welcome transparency .
today , more than ever before , a little bit of honesty brings us very far .
and that said , with honesty and transparency , my whole talk &quot; welcome transparency &quot; was presented to you by my good friends of emc who paid $ 7100 for the name rights on ebay .
big data is transformed for organizations around the world into big opportunities .
emc presents &quot; welcome transparency . &quot;
thank you .
now , morgan , on behalf of transparency , this is what happened to the $ 7100 ?
that &apos;s a great question .
i put a check in my pocket , on the top organization of the ted organization , the sapling foundation -- a check at the height of $ 7100 to fund my ted performance the next year .
i think it &apos;s pretty obvious in terms of what we need .
my name is amit .
18 months ago , i was doing something else at google , and i was talking about doing something with museums and art , and my boyfriend , who &apos;s also here today , gave me a green light .
and it took 18 months .
a lot of fun negotiations and stories , i can tell you , with 17 very interesting museums from nine countries .
but i &apos;m going to focus on the demo .
there &apos;s a lot of stories about why we &apos;ve done this .
i think my personal view is very simple with this slide and its access .
i grew up in india .
i became a great education -- i don &apos;t complain -- but i had too many museums and these works of art .
so when i went to visit these museums , i started learning a lot .
we &apos;re going to grow from six and a half to nine billion people in the next 40 years .
and while i was working for google , i was trying to make this desire -- to make art more accessible -- to bring technology together .
we then created a team , a great team , and we started with this .
i &apos;m going to start with demonstration , and tell you some interesting things that happened since the launch .
so you just go to google leartproject.com .
you can look around in all these museums here .
there &apos;s uffizi , moma , the hermitage , the rijks , van gogh .
i even come to one of my favorite , the metropolitan museum of art in new york .
you get in two ways -- very simple .
click , and wumms , you &apos;re at this museum .
it doesn &apos;t matter where you are -- bombay , mexico , it doesn &apos;t matter .
to put it in my context , i was born in 1946 .
you go around and you amuse yourself .
you want to orient in the museum ?
open the map , and jump with a click .
in there they are , they want to go to the end of the gang .
just keep going . lots of fun .
get them up .
thank you , but the best part is still .
so now i &apos;m in front of one of my favorite pictures , harvest workers from pieter breugel in the met .
i see this plusade sign .
if the museum gave us the picture , they click on it .
today , three people on this planet are for everyone who has existed in 1946 ; within 40 years , it will be four .
now this is one of the images .
this is all metadata .
those of you who are really interested in art can click here -- but i &apos;m going to click that away now .
this is one of the images that we &apos;ve captured with what we call the gigapix technology .
for example , this picture has about 10 billion images , i think .
and a lot of people ask me , &quot; what do you get for 10 billion points of imagery ? &quot;
here &apos;s what i &apos;m going to show you .
you can zoom in and out very easily .
you see something funny here .
i love this guy ; his expression is unaffordable .
we have problems with food , with fresh and clean water , medicine , fuel for 6.5 billion people .
but then you really want to go deep .
and so i started playing around , and i realized something was going on there .
and i thought , &quot; wait a minute , that sounds interesting . &quot;
i went up close , and i slowly realized that these kids actually beat something .
i did some research , and i spoke to some famous people at the met , and i actually found out that it was a game called squail , where a gans is beaten with a stick on the night tuesday .
apparently it was quite popular .
i don &apos;t know why they did it , but i learned something about it .
to go really close , you can go up to the cracks .
just to give you the overview , i zoom out so you can see what you get .
here we were , and this is the painting .
it &apos;s going to be a challenge to offer that for nine .
the best part is -- in a second .
let &apos;s jump quickly to moma , again in new york .
another favorite picture of me , star night .
the previous example was about finding detail .
but what if you want to see the paintbrush strikes ?
and what if you want to see van gogh creating this masterpiece ?
you zoomed in . you can actually go in .
i &apos;m going to zoom in on one of my favorite parts of this picture , until i &apos;m really in the cracks .
this is star night , probably never seen that way before .
now i &apos;m going to show you my favorite function .
we need over five billion tons of coal , 30-plus billion barrels of oil . that &apos;s a hundred million barrels a day .
there are many others , but i don &apos;t have time .
that &apos;s the really cool part , it &apos;s called collections .
every one of you , every -- just as rich or poor , whether you have a great house -- doesn &apos;t matter .
you can go and create your own museum online -- from all these images , you can put your own collection on .
very simply , you go in -- and i &apos;ve created this , it &apos;s called the power of zoom -- you can zoom in .
this is &quot; the donors , &quot; in the national gallery .
you can miss everything with remarks , send your friends , and start a conversation about what you feel when you look at these masterpieces .
i think , finally , to me , is the main thing that all the wonderful things don &apos;t come from google .
they don &apos;t even come from the museums , i think .
i should not say that .
when we think about biological processes , or any process to replace that , it becomes a huge challenge .
they come from the artists .
and that was an experience in humility for me .
i mean , i hope we &apos;re going to be talking to this digital medium of art and representing it properly online .
and the biggest question that i &apos;m asked recently is , &quot; did you do this to replicate the experience of a museum visit ? &quot;
the answer to that is no .
it &apos;s supposed to add the experience .
that &apos;s what it &apos;s about . thank you .
thank you .
this is a representation of your brain . your brain can be divided into two halves .
this is the left half , which is the logical side , and then the right half , which is the intuitive side .
then , of course , there &apos;s all the co2 from this material that &apos;s landing in the atmosphere .
if we had a scale to measure the aptitute of every hemisphere , we could map your brain .
for example , this would be somebody who is completely logical .
this would be somebody who &apos;s completely intuitive .
now , where would you position your brain at this scale ?
some of us may have chosen for one of these extremes , but i think for most people in the audience , your brain looks something like this -- with a high aptitute , which is at the same time in both hemisphere .
it &apos;s not like they &apos;re both exclusive or something like that .
they can be logical and intuitive .
and so i think of myself as one of the people , along with most other experimental quantum physicists , who need a good percentage of logic to put the complex ideas together .
but at the same time , we need a good percentage of intuition to actually do the experiments .
how do we develop this intuition ? well , we love playing with things .
it &apos;s interesting .
we now , from our discoveries around the world , a database of about 20 million genes , and i want to believe that these are the design components of the future .
so we go out and we play with it , and then we look at how it responds , and then we start developing our intuition .
basically , they do the same thing .
so one of the intuitions that you &apos;ve developed over the years is probably that a thing at the same time can only be in one place .
i mean , it can sound strange to think that a thing at the same time is in two different places , but they haven &apos;t been born with this idea , they &apos;ve developed it .
i remember seeing a child play on a ground threshold .
he was a little kid , and he wasn &apos;t very good at it , and he kept falling .
but i bet that playing with the ground threshold taught him a very valuable lesson , which is that big things don &apos;t just let you go , and they stay in one place .
and this is a great conceptual model of the world , as long as you &apos;re not a particle physicist .
it would be a terrible model for a particle physicist , because they &apos;re not playing with soil threshold , they &apos;re playing with these little strange particles .
and when you play with your particles , you find all kinds of strange things -- like you can fly right through walls , or you can be in two different places at the same time .
the electronics industry had a dozen components , and look at the diversity that came out of it .
and so they wrote down all these observations , and they called them the theory of quantum mechanics .
this was the state of physics a few years ago ; it took quantum mechanics to describe the small , tiny particles .
but you didn &apos;t need them to describe the great everyday objects around us .
that didn &apos;t like my intuition , and maybe it &apos;s just because i don &apos;t play with particles so often .
well , i sometimes play with them , but not very often .
and i &apos;ve never seen them .
i mean , nobody has ever seen a particle .
but my logical side didn &apos;t like it either .
because if all things are made of particles and all these particles follow the rules of quantum mechanics , shouldn &apos;t it just follow the rules of quantum mechanics ?
i don &apos;t see a reason why it shouldn &apos;t be that way .
we &apos;re primarily bumping into the limits of biological reality and that of our imagination .
so i would feel more clearly about the whole thing if we could somehow show that everyday objects also follow the rules of quantum mechanics .
so a few years ago , i went to do that .
i created one .
this is the first object you can see that was in the quantum mechanical superposition .
so what we &apos;re looking at here is a tiny computer chip .
and you can see this green dot there in the middle .
this is the piece of metal that i &apos;m going to talk about in a moment .
this is a picture of the object .
here i &apos;m going to expand it a little bit . we &apos;re looking at the center right here .
and here &apos;s a really big close-up of this little piece of metal .
we have technologies today because of these quick synthesizers to do what we call combinatorial genetics .
so what we &apos;re looking at is a little piece of metal that &apos;s shaped like a springboard , and it &apos;s over the edge .
so i did this thing in a similar way that you make a computer chip .
i went to a clean room with new siliconium slices , and i rocked to all the big devices for 100 hours .
for the last little bit , i had to build my own machine -- to get this kind of swimming pool shaped hole and the thing .
this thing has the ability to be in the quantum mechanical superposition , but it takes a little bit of help to do it .
look , let me give you an analogy .
you know how uncomfortable it is to be in a full elevator ?
i mean , if i &apos;m alone in the elevator , i do all kinds of weird things , but then other people go up and i stop doing all these things because i don &apos;t want to hurt them , or frankly , they go away .
so quantum mechanics says that unmoving objects feel the same way .
the fellow drivers for intractable objects are not just humans , but the light that shines on them and the wind that passes over them and the heat of the space .
we now have the ability to build a large robot that can make millions of chromosomes a day .
and so we knew that if we wanted to see this piece of metal behaving quantum mechanically , we had to throw out the whole travelers .
and then we did .
we turned off the light , we put it in a vacuum , and we sucked out all the air , and we cooled it up to almost now , all by itself in the elevator , the piece of metal was free to behave as much as it wanted .
so we measured his movement .
we found that it &apos;s really strange to move .
instead of just lying there quietly , it vibrated . the way it vibrated was kind of like this -- like a stretching and aggregating bubble .
in which we gave him a little push , we could make it vibrate and not vibrate at the same time -- something that &apos;s only allowed in quantum mechanics .
so what i &apos;m telling you right now is what &apos;s truly fantastic .
what does it mean to vibrate an object at the same time , not to vibrate ?
let &apos;s think about atoms .
if you imagine making these 20 million different genes , or optimizing these processes to make octanium or drugs new vaccines , we can change more molecular biology with a small team than the last 20 years of science .
so the first case : all the trillions of atoms that make up the piece of metal are still there , and at the same time , the same atoms are moving up and down .
just too precise times , they agree .
the rest of the time , they &apos;re delusiastic .
that means that every atom at the same time is in two different places , which means that the whole piece of metal is in two different places .
i think that &apos;s really cool .
really .
that was worth locking me in the clean space for all this year , because , check this out , the massage difference between a single atom and this piece of metal is about the same as the difference between the piece of metal and you .
so if a single atom can be at the same time in two different places , this piece of metal can be in two different places , why not you ?
i mean , that &apos;s just what my logical side says .
so , imagine if you were at the same time in several places , how would that feel ?
and it &apos;s just a mere selection . we can select for life , production of chemicals or fuel production of vaccine and so on .
how would your consciousness deal with the fact that your body is deloccurring in the room ?
there &apos;s another aspect of history .
when we warmed it up , switched on the lights and looked in the box , we saw that the piece of metal was always there in one piece .
and so i had to develop this new intuition that it looks like all the objects in the elevator are actually just quantum objects that are made together in a small space .
you hear a lot of talk about how quantum mechanics says that everything is connected to everything .
well , that &apos;s not quite right .
there &apos;s more to it , it &apos;s even deeper .
it &apos;s like these connections , their connections with all the things around them , literally define who they are , and that &apos;s the profound and strange of quantum mechanics .
thank you .
in 2007 , i decided that we should reconceptualize how we think about economic development .
this is a picture of actual design software that we &apos;re working on , where you actually sit down and design new species on the computer .
it should be our goal that if families think about where they want to live and work , they have the opportunity to choose between at least one hand of all different cities that are all in competition for new residents .
right now we &apos;re far from this goal .
there are billions of people in the developing world who don &apos;t even have a single city that would welcome them .
but the amazing thing about cities is that they &apos;re worth so much more than it costs to build them .
so we could take the world very easily with duzings , maybe even hundreds of new cities .
now that sounds absurd to you , as far as you &apos;ve never thought about new cities .
but just swap the apartment building for the cities .
imagine half of the people who want to live in apartments did this already , but half didn &apos;t .
you could try to expand the capacity of the existing apartments .
but you know what they &apos;re going to be about , in these apartments and their surroundings , there are laws for avoiding and distracting from degradation .
you know , we don &apos;t necessarily know what it &apos;s going to look like . we know exactly what their genetic code is going to look like .
so it turns out to be very hard to get all these extensions .
but you could go to a completely new place , build a completely new block of living , providing the laws there would support such a building and not prevent it .
so i proposed that governments create new surfaces that provide enough space for a city and gave them a name : charter cities .
later , i found out that about the same time , ja4 and octavio were thinking about the challenge of a reform in honduras .
they knew that every year , about 75,000 hondurans left their country to go out to the united states , and they wanted to know what they could do to make sure that they could stay in their country and do exactly the same thing in honduras .
at this point , jafour said to octavio , &quot; what happens if we take an unpopulated area of our country -- what if we just give them a message -- a part of the american embassy , a part of the canadian bottleneck , and if people want to go and work under the canadian rules or the united states , can they work there , and can do anything that they usually have to go to canada or america ? &quot;
in the summer of 2009 , honduras suffered from a major depression .
in the next planned elections , pepe lobo won in a turnaround , whose program promised both novelty and light .
he asked octavio to become his steep .
in the meantime , i was preparing for a talk at tedglobal .
we &apos;re now focusing on fourth generation fuels .
by improving , by trying and by studying consumers , i &apos;ve tried to reduce this complicated concept of charter city to the basic elements .
the first point is the importance of laws , laws that determine that you can &apos;t disturb existing housing owners .
we pay a lot of attention to new technologies , but for progress , it requires technologies and laws , and it &apos;s usually the laws that keep us back .
in the fall of 2010 , a friend of guatemala octavio sent the link to the tedtalk .
and he showed him jafour .
they called me up .
and they said , &quot; let &apos;s present this to the chairman of our country ! &quot;
so , in december , we met in the boardroom of a hotel in miami .
i &apos;ve tried to make clear how valuable cities are to how much more valuable they are than they cost .
and i used this graph to show you how valuable rohland is in a place like new york , and remember that in some cases a square meter is worth thousands of dollars per square meter .
we need to deal with the unstoppable separation of death , and so it should not surprise us that we all sing , dancing and art .
if i asked you to count the great world religions , what would you say ?
you &apos;ve seen corn to ethanol recently , which is just a bad experiment .
but it was a pretty abstract discussion , at a time when there was a pause , octavio said , &quot; paul , maybe we could look at the tedtalk . &quot;
so the tedtalk , in a very simple form , represented that a charter city is a place whose early uninhabited country , a founding contract that determines the laws that are there and provides people the opportunity to either live under those rules or not .
that &apos;s why i was asked by the president of honduras , who meant that we had to do this project , that it &apos;s important , and that this is the way we &apos;re going to move our country forward .
i was asked to come to tegucigalpa and give a talk again on the fourth and the fifth of january .
so i gave another one with facts filled with a graph like this , which is to say that if you want to create a lot of value in a city , it has to be a very large city .
this is a picture of denver city , and the sketch represents the new airport built in denver .
just this airport has a surface of 100 square kilometers .
so i &apos;ve tried to convince the honeybeans that if you want to build a new city , you have to start with an area of at least 1,000 square kilometers .
that &apos;s more than 250 thousand acres .
politely , everybody applauded .
we have two and third generation fuels that will come out pretty soon that will have much higher sugar value , like octanol or different kinds of butanol .
the audience &apos;s faces were very serious and alert .
the head of congress came on the stage and said , &quot; professor romer , thank you very much for your talk , but maybe we could look at the tedtalk .
i have it here on my laptop . &quot;
so i sat down , and they played the tedtalk .
and i &apos;ve come to the core point that a new city provides new opportunities to people .
there would be a way to live in a city that would be in honduras instead of hundreds of miles away in the north .
and a new city also includes new possibilities for leaders .
the leaders of the government in honduras would be dependent on the help of partnership countries , they could benefit from their partner countries , who would support them to set up the laws for this charter and the execution that everyone could trust that the charter is really being implemented .
and the realization of president lobo was that the certainty of the translation that i &apos;ve been thinking about as a way to get the foreign investors to come and build this city equally significant for all the parties in honduras that have been in fear and mistrust for many years .
we went to an area .
but , as we think , the only way that biology is going to have a huge impact on the cost of food , or the limitation of its availability , is when we see co2 as an output material , and so we work on cells that go this way .
this picture is from this place .
it takes a thousand square miles .
and shortly after january 19th , they voted with congress for a change in constitution to have a constitutional regime that is reliable for particular developmental areas .
in a country that has just been through a massive crisis , congress has been elected for this comprehension change with 124 to a voice .
all the parties , all the factions of society , supported this .
but to be part of the constitution , it has to be approved twice by congress .
on february 17th , it was approved for the second time with 114 to a voice .
immediately after that election , between the 21st and february 24th , a delegation of about 30 famines traveled to the two places in the world that were most interested in getting into the city building .
one place is south korea .
this is a picture of a big , new city center that was built in south korea , big than the city center of bostons .
and we think we &apos;re going to be the first to be the fourth generation fuels , and that in about 18 months .
everything you can see in this picture was built within four years after it took four years to get the permits .
the other place that was very interested in urban building is singapore .
there have been two cities built in china , and the third is in preparation .
so if you &apos;re basically thinking about it , it &apos;s where we are today .
they already have a building site , and they &apos;re already mentioning this area for the second city .
it &apos;s already working on a legal system that managers are allowed to participate , and it &apos;s also working on an external legal system .
a country has already offered to provide its supreme court as a court for the valid appeal of the court there .
also urban designers and farmers are very interested .
they even bring in funding .
one of the things , as you already know , has been enlightened , is there are many rents .
sunlight and co2 are a method .
there are a lot of businesses that would like to be in america , especially in a place with a free trade zone , and there are a lot of people who would like to live there .
all over the world , there are 700 million people who say they want to live in a different place permanently .
a million people leave latin america every year and migrate to the united states .
many of them are fathers who are forced to leave their families to look for work -- sometimes it &apos;s single mothers who have to make enough money to afford food and clothing .
unfortunately , sometimes even children who are trying to find their parents , who they , in some cases , haven &apos;t seen for a decade .
so what is it for an idea to think about in honduras to build a whole new city ?
or even building stupid of these cities , or distributing hundreds of people around the world ?
so what is it for an idea to insist that every family has a choice between several cities that are in competition for new residents ?
that &apos;s an idea worth spreading .
my friends from honduras asked me to say , thank you ted .
but in our discovery of the world , we have all kinds of different methods .
do you know how many decisions you make on a typical day ?
do you know how many decisions you make in a typical week ?
i did a survey recently with over 2,000 americans , and the average number of decisions that according to a typical american makes one day is 70 .
also , a recent study was done with ceos , where they watched the ceos for a week .
and these scientists have just documented the different topics that these ceo are dealing with , and how much time they spent making decisions that are related to the topics .
and they found that an average ceo is dealing with 139 tasks in the week .
each of these themes , of course , was made up of many , many smaller decisions .
50 percent of their decisions were made in nine minutes or less .
only for about 12 percent of their decisions , they took an hour or more of their time .
think about your own decisions .
this is an organism that we described in 1996 .
do you know how many decisions you make in the nine minutes of category versus the one in the one hour of category ?
how good do you think you are at copying the decisions ?
today i want to talk about one of the biggest decision-making problems of our modern era , the decision-overlapping problem .
i want to talk about the problem and some possible solutions .
now , when i talk about this problem , i &apos;m going to ask you some questions , and i want to know your answers .
if i ask you a question , raise your hand , because i &apos;m blind , only if you want to burn some calories .
otherwise , i ask you , if i ask you a question , and your answer is yes , so my first question for today is , are you ready to hear about the decision-overlapping problem ?
thank you .
when i was a graduate student at stanford university , i went to this very exclusive grocery store ; at least at the time , he was really exclusive .
it was a store called draeger &apos;s .
it lives in the deep sea , about a mile and a half deep , at nearly boiling water temperatures .
this business , it was almost like a pleasure party .
they had 250 different kinds of mustard and essional and over 500 different kinds of fruit and vegetables and more than two dozen different kinds of water -- and that was at a time when we actually drank water .
i loved going to this business , but at one point i asked myself , well , how come you never buy anything ?
here &apos;s the olive oil .
they had over 75 different kinds of olive oil , including those who were locked in boxes that came from a thousand year-old olive trees .
so one day , i decided to go to the fictional director , and i asked the ladder , &quot; does this model work that you really offer people all these possibilities ? &quot;
and he pointed to the bus loads of tourists who came every day and usually had their cameras .
we decided to do an experiment , and we chose marmelade for our experiment .
here &apos;s her martian gang .
they had 348 different types of marmelade .
it turns co2 into methane to use hydrogen as a source of energy .
we &apos;ve set up a little coastal plate right at the entrance of the business .
we &apos;ve put six different flavors of marmelade or 24 different flavors of marmelade , and we looked at two things : first , what case would more people stand and try marmelade ?
there are more people left when it was 24 , about 60 percent than when it was six , about 40 percent .
and after that , we looked at what case people were buying a glass of marmelade .
now we saw the reverse effect .
of the people who were left when they were 24 , only three percent actually bought a glass of march .
of the people who were left when they were six , well , now we saw that 30 percent of them actually bought a glass of march .
now , when you calculate it , people bought six times more of a glass of march who you had six choices than when you had 24 choices for choice .
well , deciding not to buy a glass of marmelade is probably good for us -- at least it &apos;s good for our waistline -- but it turns out that the decision-overlapping problem also affects us in very consequence decisions .
we don &apos;t choose to decide , even though it comes to our best interests .
we &apos;re looking at whether we can use stored co2 , which could just be brought to production shops , convert the co2 into fuel to drive this process .
so , the theme of the day : financial saving .
i &apos;m going to describe to you a study that i did with gur huberman , emir kamenica , wei jang , where we looked at the decisions to save for the retirements of nearly one million americans in about 650 plans in the entire united states .
and what we looked at was whether the number of fondsans that were possible to a retirement plan , the 401 plan , the probability of saving more for tomorrow .
and we found that there was actually a connection .
so in these plans , we had about 657 plans that offered people something between two and 59 different fonds .
and what we found was that the more fund was offered , in fact , that the more frequency was lower .
now , if you look at the extreme , the plans that offered two fonds had a partial rate in the &apos; 70s -- still not as high as we want .
in the plans that offered almost 60 fonds , the participation rate fell to about the sixth percent .
now it turns out that even if you decide to participate , if there are more options for choice , even then , it has negative consequences .
so the people who decided to participate tend to have more options available to them , the more they rent it to actia and fund .
christianity , islam , buddhism , judaism , whatever .
within a short period of time , we think we could be able to solve one of the fundamental questions of life .
the more possibilities they had available , the more they put all their money into pure money market accounts .
none of these extreme decisions belong to the decisions that people would recommend when their future financial well-being matters .
well , in the last 10 years , we &apos;ve seen three major negative consequences in people who are providing more and more choices .
they &apos;re pushing the decision -- push it up , even when it comes to your own best interest .
they make more bad decisions -- worse financial and worse medical decisions .
they choose more for things that they make themselves less happy , even if they make it objective better .
the main reason for this is that maybe we enjoy looking at these huge shelves of mayonaise , mustard , essional and marmelade , but we can &apos;t actually draw the comparison and limitations and then actually choose something from the fantastic offer .
so what i want to suggest to you today is four simple techniques -- techniques that we &apos;ve tested in different ways and different research places -- that you can just apply in your business .
first of all , limits .
you &apos;ve heard it before , but it was never more true than today that less is .
you know , we really have -- moderate goals like replacing the whole petrochemical industry . right . if you couldn &apos;t do that at ted , where else ? to become a main source of energy .
people are always worried when i say , &quot; limited . &quot;
they &apos;re always worried that they &apos;re losing real space .
but in fact , we &apos;re seeing it more and more , that if you &apos;re willing to confine yourself , and the unimportant equals are getting rid of , well , there &apos;s a increase in sales , there &apos;s a decline in cost , &amp; amp ; and there &apos;s an improvement in decision-making perception .
when proctor and gamble reduced the different head and shoulders species from 26 to 15 , they experienced an increase in sales by 10 percent .
when the golden cat corporation got rid of its 10 highest selling cat streus , they found that the profits went up 87 percent -- a result of both the sales and the reducing of the cost .
you know , the average supermacrt today offers you 45,000 products .
a typical walmart is offering you 100,000 products today .
but the ninth largest supermarket , the ninth largest supermarket in the world today is aldi , and they only offer them 1,400 products -- a kind of tomato sauce in doses .
now in the world of savings , i think one of the best examples that came to market recently , about how to best mandate the choices , was something that david laibson was very strongly designing , which is a program that &apos;s offered at harvard .
every single harvard staff is now automatically participating in a life-time fund .
but in the same way , we &apos;re working on using the same approaches for the development of vaccines .
those who really want to make a choice are offered 20 fonds , not 300 or more fund .
you know , people often say , &quot; i don &apos;t know how to limit it .
it &apos;s all important opportunities . &quot;
and the first thing i ask the staff is , &quot; tell me how the possibilities are different from each other .
and if their employees can &apos;t tell them apart , they can &apos;t . &quot;
now , before we started this afternoon , i had a conversation with gary .
and gary said that he would be willing to offer all the people in this audience an all-including vacation to the most beautiful street in the world .
here &apos;s a description of the street .
and i want to read you the ones .
and now i &apos;m going to give you a few seconds to read them , and then i &apos;m going to ask you to clap , if you &apos;re willing to take gary &apos;s offer .
you saw it this year with the flu , we &apos;re always a year in the back , and we have a dollar too little when it comes to the right vaccine .
okay . everyone who &apos;s ready to take gary &apos;s offer .
are they all ?
well , let me show you a little bit more of that .
you knew it was a trick , right ?
well , who &apos;s ready for this journey .
i think i may have heard more hands .
all right .
in fact , you &apos;ve seen objectively , the first time you &apos;ve had more information than the second time , but i would dare to guess you &apos;ve felt it real the second time .
because the images made it feel more real for them .
which brings me to the second technology that helps them deal with the problem of decision-making overload , which is concretization .
i think that can be changed by creating recombined vaccines in advance .
it &apos;s about understanding the difference between possibilities that people have to understand what consequences are associated with the individual possibilities , that those consequences have to be vividly and concrete .
why are people on average spending 15 to 30 percent more when they &apos;re using an ec-map or a credit card than in barmoney ?
because it doesn &apos;t feel really us money .
and it turns out that when you make it feel concrete , it &apos;s a very good tool to get people to save more .
so in a study that i did with shlomo benartzi and alessandro previtero , we did a study with the people at ing -- employees that all worked for ing -- and these people were all in a gathering where they signed up their participation for their retirement plan .
and during this gathering , we left this gathering as much as it used to be , we just added a little bit of a thing .
the little thing that we added to it was that we asked people to just think of all the positive things that would happen in their lives if they saved money .
in which we did this simple thing , there was an increase in participation by 20 percent , and there was an increase in the number of people who were willing to save or increase by four percent in the amount they were willing to pay for the savings account .
third technology : categorizing .
we can deal with more categories than we can with more choices .
this is what the future might look like with change , today the evolutionary tree can be accelerated with synthetic bacteria , archaea , and perhaps eukaryontes .
here , for example , is a study that we did in a magazine course .
it turns out that in the away supermarkets up and down in the northeast area , it varies the number between 331 different kinds of magazines up to 664 magazines .
but you know what ?
if i show you 600 magazines and i divide them into 10 categories , or i show you 400 magazines , and i split them up in 20 categories , you think i &apos;ve given you more choice and a better choice experience than i would have given you the 400 if i had given you the 600 .
because the categories tell me how to tell them apart .
here are two different dirt facilities .
one is called &quot; jazz , &quot; and the other is called &quot; swing . &quot;
if you think the one on the left is swing and the one on the right is jazz , you clap your hands .
okay , there are a few .
if you think it &apos;s on the left side of jazz , and the one on the right is swing , please clap .
we are light years away from improving people , and our goal is that we have a long enough chance to survive to do that . thank you very much .
okay , a few more .
well , it turns out they &apos;re right .
the one on the left is jazz , and the one on the right is swing , but you know what ?
this is a highly unuseful categorization .
categories have to tell the selector something , not the one who provides the choice .
and you often see this problem when you look at the long lists of all these fonds .
who do you really want to inform ?
my fourth technique : requirement for complexity .
it turns out that we can actually deal with more information than we think we just need to simplify it .
we need to slowly increase complexity .
at the last ted conference , i gave an introduction to the lhc .
let me show you an example of what i mean .
let &apos;s take a very , very complicated decision : the purchase of a car .
here &apos;s a german car manufacturer who gives you the opportunity to completely configure your car .
you have to make 62 different decisions to make your car completely .
now these decisions are different from the number of choices that they offer per decision .
car color , outdoor color of the car -- i have 56 options .
motors , gears -- four possibilities .
what i &apos;m doing now is i &apos;m changing the order in which the decisions appear .
half of the customers go from the many possibilities , 56 car colors to the low possibilities , four gears .
half of the customers go from the low possibilities , four gears , to the 56 car colors , lots of possibilities .
and i promised to come back to tell you how the machine works .
what do i look at ?
how interested they are .
if you use the standard choice all the time in the decision , it means that you &apos;re being asked , the hottest , i lose it .
what they find is that the people who go from the many to the low choice ponds over and over again choose the standard choice .
we lose them .
go from the little choice to the many , then stay there .
it &apos;s the same information . it &apos;s the same number of possibilities .
the only thing i &apos;ve done is to change the order in which this information is presented .
when i start with the simple one , i learn how to choose .
even though the gear is choosing , nothing says to me about my preferences in the interior state , it still prepare me to choose .
so it &apos;s now there . and for those of you who weren &apos;t there at the time , the lhc is the biggest scientific experiment ever approached -- 27 kilometers in diameter .
it also puts me in excitement about the big product that i put together , and so i &apos;m willing to be motivated to be there with interest .
let me summarize .
i &apos;ve told you about four techniques that are alleviating the problem of decision-overlapping -- narrow -- get rid of the obsolete alternatives ; concretize -- make it real ; categorize -- we can better deal with more categories , less possibilities ; prepare for complexity .
every one of these techniques that i &apos;m going to describe to you today is to help you manage the possibilities -- good for you , you can use them for yourself , good for the people you offer services .
because i think the key to the best possible choice is that you &apos;re picky in the selection .
and the more we &apos;re choosing , the better we &apos;re going to be able to practice the art of choice .
thank you .
hi . i &apos;m kevin allocca , trends-managers on youtube . i look at youtube video .
that &apos;s true .
today we want to talk about how videos become viral , and then we want to talk about how that &apos;s important .
a continent is always left out , because the assumption was that in sub-saharan africa , there was no religious belief . of course , there was one , and voodoo is just the remaining of this very profound religious thought that came along during the tragic diaspora of slavery .
his job is to create the conditions that existed less than a billionth of a second after the universe began -- up to 600 million times within a second .
we all want to be stars -- famous , singers , comedians -- when i was young , it seemed so infinite .
but web videos have allowed us all , or all , to become terribly famous for our creative activities in a part of the world &apos;s culture .
every single one of you could be famous about the internet to the next saturday .
but on youtube , more than 48 hours of video is uploaded a minute .
again , only a tiny percentage of it ever gets viral and is viewed thousands of times , and so at the cultural moment .
so how does this work ?
three things : tastemaker , participation communities and the unexpected .
well , we want to do that .
oh my god . oh my god .
oh my god !
it &apos;s just breathtaking ambition .
whoa !
ohhhhhh , wowwwww !
last year , bear vasquez sent this video that he had filmed in front of his house in the yosemite national park .
in 2010 , it was 23 million times looked at .
this graph shows what it looked like when the video was first popular last summer .
in fact , bear didn &apos;t want to make a viral video .
he just wanted to share a rainbow .
because that &apos;s how you do it when you &apos;re called yosemite mountain bear .
he had uploaded a lot of natural videos .
and this video had actually been sent in january .
this is the machine below geneva .
what happened here ?
there was jimmy kimmel .
jimmy kimmel sent the tweet , who ended up making the video so popular .
because tastemaker like jimmy kimmel introduces us to new and interesting things and shows a big audience .
it &apos;s friday , friday . gotta get down on friday . everybody &apos;s looking forward to the weekend , weekend . friday , friday . gettin &apos; down on friday . you wouldn &apos;t have thought we would have this conversation without talking about this video , i hope .
rebecca blacks &quot; friday &quot; is one of the most popular videos of the year .
it &apos;s been looked at almost 200 million times this year .
this is what the graphics looked like .
just like double rainbow , it seems to have come out of nowhere .
what happened that day ?
we take pictures of these mini-big bangs in detectors .
well , it was friday , that &apos;s true .
if you want to know , these other peaks are also fridays .
but what about that day , that particular friday ?
well , tosh.0 gave it up , lots of blogs started writing about it .
michael j. nelson of mystery science theater was one of the first to make a joke on twitter .
what &apos;s important is that a single person or a group of tastemakers took a standpoint , shared it with a large audience and accelerated the process .
then this community of people who shared this big insider joke started talking about it and playing around with it .
now there are 10,000 parodies from &quot; friday &quot; on youtube .
in the first seven days , there was a parody for every single week .
unlike the one-page conversation of the 20th century , the community participation is our way to become part of this phenomenon -- either by spreading it or making something new .
that &apos;s what i work on . he calls himself atlas detector -- 44 meters wide , 22 meters in diameter .
&quot; nyan cat &quot; is animation and music in endless loop .
that &apos;s it , very simple .
this year , it was looked at almost 50 million times .
and if you think that &apos;s crazy , you should know that there &apos;s a three-hour version of it that &apos;s been looked at four million times .
even cats look at this video .
cats look at cats looking at this video .
what &apos;s important is the creativity that &apos;s in the internet culture of techie and geeks .
there were remixes .
somebody made an old-fashioned version of it .
and then it became international .
here &apos;s a spectacular picture of the atlas in construction so you can see the scale .
a whole remix community shot out of the ground that made it from a stupid joke to something that we can all participate in .
today , we don &apos;t just find pleasure from something we do .
who could have anticipated this ?
who could have predicted double rainbow or rebecca black or nyan cat ?
what scripts could you have written , in which it was pressed ?
in a world where every minute , two days of video is uploaded , only can you create really unique and unexpected videos .
i admit i was not particularly interested when a friend told me to watch this great video about a guy protesting ticket in new york .
i got a ticket because i didn &apos;t go on the bike lane , but often there are disabilities that don &apos;t let you drive on the bike lane .
since this was completely surprising and humorous , casey niestats &apos;s funny idea and his argument was looked at five million times .
this approach to everything new that we do creatively .
on september 10 , last year , the machine went on for the first time .
and all of this leads to the one big question ...
what does that mean ?
ohhh .
what does that mean ?
tastemaker , creative participants , totally unexpected , are the features of a new kind of media and culture that everybody has access to and in which the audience determines popularity .
as i said , one of the biggest stars at the moment -- justin bieber -- made his beginning on youtube .
nobody has to give your ideas to green light .
and today we all feel as owners of our pop culture .
and these are not the features of old media , and they &apos;re not going to meet the media of today , but they &apos;re going to determine the conversation of the future .
thank you .
and this picture was taken by atlas .
the story is not over yet .
it &apos;s a puzzle that &apos;s still being put together .
i want to tell you about some of the puzzles .
imagine the first piece : a man who burns his life &apos;s work .
he &apos;s a poet , a writer , a man whose whole life has been held together by the simple hope of unity and freedom of his home .
keep him in mind at the march of communications in saigon , as he needs to admit that his life had been a single waste .
the words , as long as his friends , now spotted his .
he went back to silence .
he died , broken by history .
it caused immense juice in the control room .
he &apos;s my grandfather .
i never met him personally .
but our lives are so much more than our memories .
my grandmother never let me forget his life .
i had to make sure that it wasn &apos;t free , and it was my job to learn that history was trying to crush us , but we were over it .
the next piece of the puzzle shows how a boat is running in the early morning red quiet at sea .
my mother , may 18 , when her father died -- already in an arranged marriage , already with two little girls .
for her , life had given her a job : the escape of her family and a new life in australia .
it was completely excluded that it could fail .
after a four-year-old and film , saga glitt took a boat still on the lake as a fishing boat .
it &apos;s a picture of the first radiation particle , which put the entire distance around the lhc , then , intentionally , collided with a part of the lhc to have a rain of particles collided on the detector .
all adults were aware of the risks .
the biggest fear was they were in pirate , rape and death .
like most adults on the boat , my mother was carrying a little toxic bottle .
in a prisoner &apos;s take , first my sister and i , then she and my grandmother would have drunk from it .
my first memories are from this boat -- the steady tuckers of the engine , clapping every wave on the bug , the wider and empty horizon .
i don &apos;t remember the pirates that came up many times , but the death of men on our boat , or the failure of the engine that didn &apos;t want to start six hours .
but i remember the lights of the oil platform off the malayan coast , and the young man who collapsed and died , the end of the journey was too much for him , and the taste of the first apple that gave me on the platform .
no apple has ever smashed like this again .
after three months in a refugee camp , we ended up in melbourne .
and the next piece of the puzzle is about four women in three generations who together build a new life .
but what voodoo is so interesting is this living relationship between the living and the dead .
in other words , when we saw this image on september 10 , we knew that the machine was working , which is a big triumph .
we went down in footscray , one of the working-class suburbs , whose population is made of immigrant layers .
unlike in the old-fashioned middle class suburbs , whose existence i was completely unknown , there was no sophistication in footscray .
the scaffolding from the ladadder came from the rest of the world .
and the fetuses broken english were traded between people who had one thing in common : they started new .
my mother worked on farms , then on a assembly line in a car factory , six days , double layers .
she somehow managed to find the time , get english and it-qualifications .
we were poor .
every dollar was given and was put into more education for english and mathematics , no matter what we had to get out of it , and most of the time , the new stuff that always came from second hand .
two strands for school , each one , to cover the holes in the other .
a school uniform to the ankle , because it had to reach six years .
i don &apos;t know if this made the biggest jubel , or this is what someone visited the google page and found the front page like this .
and there were the rare but painful choirs of &quot; slight eye , &quot; and here and there were configurations , &quot; asians , go home . &quot;
where does it go ?
a little bit increases in me .
there was a meeting for reconciliation , and a quiet voice said , &quot; i &apos;m going to go out of your way . &quot;
my mother , my sister and i slept in the same bed .
my mother was exhausted every night , but we told each other about our day , and we listened to the movements of our grandmother in the house .
my mother suffered from the boat in nightmares .
and it was my job to stay awake every night until my nightmares came , so i could wake them up .
she opened a computer business , then she made a cosmetic education , and she opened another business .
and the women came with their stories about men who didn &apos;t get the change , angry and inflexible , and sorrow children , caught between two worlds .
it means that we &apos;ve reached a cultural impact next to the scientific .
loans and sponsors were searched .
centers were built .
i lived in parallel worlds .
in one , i was the classic asian student who provided relentless demands to himself .
in the other , i was involved in unsafe lives that carried the tragic scars of violence , of drug abuse and of insulation .
but so many got help over the years .
and for this help , i was chosen in my last year of law school as a young australian of the year .
and i was catapulted by a piece of puzzle to the next catapult , and the edges didn &apos;t fit together .
tan le , anonymous resident of footscray , was now tan le , refugee and social activist , who was invited to speak to places she had never heard of , and in homes whose existence she could never have imagined .
i was not familiar with the label .
about a week later , there was a problem with the machine that had to do with these wires here -- these golden wires here .
i didn &apos;t know how to use the bribe .
i didn &apos;t know how to talk about wine .
i didn &apos;t know how to talk about anything .
i wanted to go back to the routine and the convenience of the life of an unknown suburb -- a grandmother , a mother and two daughters who have closed every day as much as for 20 years , telling each other the stories of their day and sleeping with each other , we still have three in the same bed .
i told my mother i wasn &apos;t going to do that .
she reminded me that i was now as old as they were when we climbed the boat .
no , no , never been an opportunity .
&quot; just do it , &quot; she said . &quot; and don &apos;t be what you &apos;re not . &quot;
so i talked about adolescence and education , and the neglect of marginalized and discharged .
and the more open i spoke , the more i should tell you .
these wires lead 13-thousand light bulbs when the machine runs on high performance .
i met people in all of their lives , so many of them did what they loved , lived at the limits of the possible .
and although i graduated from this , i realized that i couldn &apos;t deal with a career in jura .
there had to be another piece of puzzle .
and i realized at the same time that it &apos;s okay to be an outsider , a reader , new in the picture -- and not just okay , but something that you have to be grateful for , maybe a gift of the boat .
because belonging can lead so easily to the collapse of the horizon , it can mean so easily that you accept the assumptions of the environment .
i &apos;ve now gone out of my comfort zone to know that , yes , the world collapses , but not the way you fear it .
possibilities that would not have been allowed were explicitly encouraged .
there was an energy , an unprecedented optimism , a strange mixture of humility and the wagnish .
so i followed my gut feeling .
i was collecting a little team of people around me for whom the shoe &quot; don &apos;t go &quot; was an uncontradictory challenge .
now , the engineers amongst you will look at you and say , &quot; no , you don &apos;t . these are little wires . &quot;
for a year , we didn &apos;t have a cent .
at the end of each day , i cooked a huge pot of soup that we shared .
we worked late at night .
most of our ideas were crazy , but they were a few brilliant people , and we made the breakthrough .
i made the decision to move to the united states .
after just a journey there .
again , my gut feeling .
three months later , i was moved , and the adventure continued .
before i close the talk , i want to tell you about my grandmother .
she grew up at a time when confucianism was the social norm and the local mandarin as the most important person .
they can do that because if you cool them down very far , they become something called superconductors .
life had not changed for centuries .
her father died shortly after she was born .
her mother raised her alone .
at 17 , she became the second woman of a mandarin whose mother beat her .
without her husband &apos;s support , she made a sensation by taking him to court and being a ranker in her own case , and a bigger sensation than she won .
&quot; don &apos;t go , &quot; it turns out to be untrue .
i was just shooting in a hotel room in sydney when she died , 1,000 miles away in melbourne .
i looked through the shower wall , and i saw them standing on the other side .
i knew she had come to say goodbye .
my mother called me a few minutes after that .
so at minus 271 , colder than the space between the stars , these wires can keep the tension .
a few days later , we went to a buddhist temple in footscray and sat around their sarg .
we told her stories and assured her that we were still with her .
at midnight , the monk came and said he had to close the sarg .
my mother asked us to touch her hand .
she asked the monk , &quot; why is your hand so warm and the rest of her is so cold ? &quot;
&quot; because you &apos;ve been keeping them this morning , &quot; he said .
&quot; you didn &apos;t let them go . &quot;
if there &apos;s a band in our family , it goes through women .
if you look at who we were and how life has shaped us , we can now see that the men who might have come into our lives would have come to us .
the defeat would have been too simple .
in one of the connections between over nine thousand magnets in the lhc , there was a manufactured defect .
now i &apos;d like to have my own kids , and i &apos;m still thinking about the boat .
who would ever wish one ?
yes , i &apos;m afraid of privilege , of ease , of inertia .
can i give you a bug in your life that bravely dries every wave , the unbited , steady tuckers of the engine , the vast horizon that doesn &apos;t guarantee anything ?
i don &apos;t know .
but if i could give this and i could surely get it through , i would do it .
and also , tans &apos;s mother here today is in the fourth or fifth row .
i &apos;m here to share my photography with you .
is it even photography ?
because , of course , this is a picture that you can &apos;t take with your camera .
and so the wires heat slightly , and 13-thousand ampuses suddenly encountered electrical resistance .
and yet , my interest in photography began when i received my first digital camera at the age of 15 .
i combined it with my former preference for drawing , but it was a little bit different , because using the camera was actually the process of planning .
and if you take a picture with a camera , the process ends when you press on the trigger .
so to me , photography seemed to be more about being in the right place at the right time .
i thought everybody could .
so i wanted to create something else , something that the process begins when the trigger is pressed .
photographs like this : a building site along a much ridden road .
but it has an unexpected turn .
and yet , there &apos;s a realistic level .
or photographs like this -- dark and colorful at the same time , but all with the common goal of keeping a realistic level .
the living ones give rise to the spirits .
this was the result .
when i say reality , i mean photo-reality .
because , of course , it &apos;s not something that you can really capture , but i always want to make it look like you could have , in a photograph .
photographs where you have to think for a moment to find out the trick .
so it &apos;s more about capturing an idea than really a moment .
but what &apos;s the trick that makes it look realistic ?
is it about the details or the colors ?
is it about light ?
what creates the illusion ?
sometimes the perspective is the illusion .
but in the end , it &apos;s about how we interpret the world and how it can be made tangible on a two-dimensional surface .
now , all of this is even more impressive if you can imagine that the magnets weigh over 20 tons and shifted by about 30 inches .
it &apos;s not what &apos;s realistic , it &apos;s what we think is realistic .
so i think the foundations are very simple .
i think of them as a puzzle of reality where you can take different pieces and put them together to create an alternative reality .
and let me show you a simple example .
we have three perfectly imaginable physical objects that we can all relate to in a three-dimensional world .
but in a certain way , combined , you can create something that still looks three-dimensional , as if it could exist .
but at the same time , we know that this is not possible .
so we &apos;re missing our brains , because our brain just doesn &apos;t accept that it doesn &apos;t really make sense .
and i see the same process in combining photos .
it &apos;s really just about combining different realities .
so we damaged about 50 of the magnets .
so the things that make a picture look realistic , i think it &apos;s the things that we don &apos;t think about , the things around us in our everyday lives .
but when we combine photographs , it &apos;s really important to think about it , because otherwise they just look kind of wrong .
so i would say that there are three simple rules to follow in order to achieve a realistic outcome .
as you can see , these are not three special images .
but combined , you can create something special like this .
so the first rule is that combined photos should have the same perspective .
secondly , combined photos should have the same kind of light .
and these two pictures meet these two demands -- shot from the same height and the same type of light .
third , it &apos;s about making it impossible to tell where the individual images begin and end by connecting them seamlessly .
make it impossible to say how the photo was actually put together .
and they had to remove what we did .
so by adding color , contrast and brightness to the edges , to the individual images , to photographic deprivation , like the field depth , unseen colors and disorders , we &apos;re blurring the boundaries between the different images and making them look like a single photograph , even though a picture can basically contain hundreds of levels .
here &apos;s another example .
you might think that this is just a landscape , and the bottom part has been manipulated .
but this picture is actually completely composed of photographs of different places .
i personally find that it &apos;s easier to create a place than to find a place , because you don &apos;t have to compromise with the ideas in your head .
but it requires a lot of planning .
and when i had this idea in the winter , i knew that it took me several months to plan it , to find the different places for the pieces of the puzzle .
for example , the fish had been recorded on a tuesday trip .
the bank is from a different place .
the underwater part comes from a quarry .
we were repairing them , repairing them .
and yes , i even colored the house up on the island of red to make it look more swedish .
so in order to achieve a realistic outcome , it comes from me , looking at planning .
i always start with a sketch , an idea .
and then it &apos;s about the combination of the different images .
and here , every piece is very well planned .
and if you take good images , the result can be pretty beautiful , and also quite realistic .
so there are all the tools there , and the only thing that limimics us is our imagination .
thank you .
i &apos;d like to talk to you about why so many electronic health projects fail .
and i think the most important point about this is that we stopped talking to our patients .
they &apos;re all on their way back now .
and one of the things that we introduced at radboud university was to hire a major listener .
it &apos;s not particularly scientific -- it &apos;s a cup of coffee or tea , and it &apos;s asking the patients , families , relatives , &quot; how &apos;s it going ?
how can we help you ? &quot;
and we think we want to think that this is one of the main problems , why everyone -- maybe most of the electronic health projects fail , because we stopped listening .
this is my wall scale . it &apos;s a very simple thing .
she &apos;s got a button , on / off .
and every morning i jump on it .
and yes , i have a problem , as you might recognize .
i did my job at 95 kilograms .
it works very easily : every time i jump up to the scale , it also sends my data to google health .
by the end of march , the lhc will be again functional .
and there , they &apos;re also called off from my general physician , so that he can see where my weight problem is , not only in the moment that i need cardiological support or something , but also with a glimpse of the past .
but there &apos;s something else .
maybe you &apos;re familiar with that , i &apos;ve got over 4,000 followers on twitter .
so every morning , i jump up to my wall scale , and people talk to me before i sit in the car , &quot; to lunch , just a little salad today , lucien . &quot;
but this is the nicest thing that can happen , because this is the group compulsion , group compulsion , to help patients , because this could be used against obesity , or it could be deposited from patients smoking .
but it could also be used to get people out of their chairs and get them to play some kind of game together to control their health better .
next week , this is the market .
there &apos;s going to be this little blood pressure device that you attach to an iphone or something .
and it will allow people to measure their blood pressure from home , send it to their doctor and share it with others , for example , a little over 100 dollars .
at this point , the patients come in . they can take control not only again , they can be captain on their own ship , but they can also help us in the face of the challenges that are ahead of us , and the cost explosion of health care , double-demand , and so on .
we &apos;re going to turn it on , and we &apos;re going to expect to collect first data in june or july , and continue our journey to figure out what the building blocks of the universe are .
make methods that are easy to use and start to hug patients on the team .
and you can do that by doing these kinds of things , but also by crowdsourcing .
and one of the things we &apos;ve done is i want to share with you through a short video .
we have all the navigation systems in our cars .
maybe even in our cell phones .
we know exactly where all the atm machines are around maastricht .
we know another one where all the gas stations are .
and sure enough , we can find fast food chains .
but where would the next aed be to help this patient ?
we asked , and no one knew .
well , of course , in a way , the crashes , again , the debate around the value of science and engineering at such boundaries . it &apos;s easy to reject something like that .
no one knew where to find the next life-saving aed at that moment .
so what did we do ? we did crowdsourcing in the netherlands .
we set up a website and asked a crowd of people , &quot; if you see an aed , please share with us where he is , when he &apos;s up , &quot; because sometimes he &apos;s closed during business , of course .
and over 10,000 aeds have been reported in the netherlands .
the next step was to find the apps for it .
and we created an ipad app .
we &apos;ve developed an app for layar , augmented reality to find these aeds .
and if you &apos;re in a city like maastricht and someone &apos;s collapsing , you can use your iphone , and also in the next few weeks your microsoftware cell phone to find the next aed that can save lives .
and from today , we want to introduce this not just as aed4u , as the product calls itself , but also as aed4us .
and we want to take this to a global level .
i think the fact that it &apos;s so hard , the fact that we &apos;re reaching beyond our limits is the value of things like the lhc .
and we ask our colleagues around the world , from other universities , to help us behave like node points to crowdsource these aeds around the world .
and if you &apos;re on vacation and someone &apos;s collapsing , whether it &apos;s your own relationship , or anyone else , you can find an aed like this .
the other thing we want to ask for is that companies around the world are helping us confirm these aeds .
these could be curicle services , or technicians , for example , just to make sure that the reported aed is still in its place .
please help us and try to not just improve health , but take your hand .
thank you .
today i &apos;m going to report unexpected discoveries .
i work in the solar technology industry .
and my little startup wants us to force ourselves to protect the environment by ...
... it &apos;s paying attention to crowdsourcing .
the spirits can be conspired by under the great water , answers to the rhythm of dance , to temporarily displace the soul of the living , so that acolyth will be a short shiny moment to god .
i &apos;m going to leave my final words to an english scientist . humphrey davy , who , i suspect , when he defended the useless experiments of his teaching , was michael faraday , said this : &quot; nothing is so dangerous for the development of the human mind to think that our scientific ideas are final , that there are no mysteries in nature that our triumphs are full , and that there are no new worlds to conquer . &quot;
here &apos;s a short video of what we &apos;re doing .
oh . a moment .
it may take time for it to be invited .
now -- we can just skip this over -- i &apos;m just going to skip the video .
no .
that &apos;s not ...
okay .
solar technology is ...
oh , my time is over ?
okay . thank you very much .
thank you .
so a few years ago , i started a program to get the stars in technology and design to take a year off and work in an environment that &apos;s pretty much everything that they hate , we made them work in government .
the program is called &quot; code for america , &quot; and it &apos;s a little bit like the peacekeepers for computer freaks .
we select some fellows every year , and we let them work with urban administrations .
instead of sending them to the third world , we &apos;re going to send them to rathers .
and there they developed great apps , working with urban workers .
but what they really do is to show what &apos;s possible with technology today .
so they meet al .
al is a hydrant in the city of boston .
here it looks like he &apos;s looking for a date , but what he &apos;s really looking for is somebody who &apos;s freeing him up when he &apos;s in the field , because he knows he &apos;s not very good at branding when he &apos;s covered by a meter of snow .
how did he get to look for help in this particular way ?
i &apos;m a writer .
we had a team of fellows in boston last year in the suit of the code for america .
they were there in february , and it did a lot of work last february .
and they realized that the city never scooped open these hydrants .
but a particular fellow , a man named erik michael ober , noticed something else , and that was that the residents were freely blowing up the sidewalks , right in front of these parts .
so he did what every good developer would do , he wrote an app .
it &apos;s a nice little app where you can adopt a hydrant .
you &apos;re tuning out to him when it &apos;s smiling .
if you do that , you can give him a name , and he called the first al .
if you don &apos;t do that , somebody can take it away from you .
so there &apos;s a nice little game dynamic .
writing books is my profession , but of course it &apos;s more than that .
this is a modest little app .
it &apos;s probably the smallest of the 21 apps that the fellows wrote last year .
but it does something that no other government technology does .
it &apos;s spreading rapidly .
there &apos;s this guy in the i.t. section of the city of honolulu who saw that he could use this app , not for snow , but to adopt the citizens of tsunami sirens .
it &apos;s very important that these tsunami scenes work , but people steal the batteries .
so he got the citizens to check them .
and then seattle decided to use the app to get the citizens to clean up the clogged gullys .
and chicago just introduced them so that people would open up the burial sticks when it &apos;s snowing .
we now know nine cities that are planning to use this app .
it &apos;s also my great , lifelong love and fascination .
and it &apos;s spread inherently , organic , of course .
if you know something about government technology , you know it doesn &apos;t usually work that way .
it typically takes a few years to create software .
we had a team that worked on a project in boston last year that took three and a half months to do it .
it was about a method where parents can find out which ones are the right public schools for their children .
we were told later that if it were to go through the normal channels , it would have taken over two years , and it would have cost over two million dollars .
and that &apos;s nothing yet .
there &apos;s a project in california right now that has cost the taxpayers two billion dollars , and it doesn &apos;t work .
and there are projects like this at every level of government .
so an app written in a few days , and then spread from rare , is kind of a grant before the bug to the institution of the government .
and i don &apos;t expect that to ever change .
it shows how the government could work better -- no longer like a private company , how many people think it should work .
and not even like a technology company , but rather like the internet itself .
and that means free access , which means open and productive .
and that &apos;s important .
but more importantly , this app is that it represents a new generation that tackles the problem of government -- not as the problem of a wired institution , but as a problem of collective action .
and that &apos;s a very good news , because it turns out that we &apos;re very good at collective action with digital technology .
now there &apos;s a big community of people who are making the tools that we need to actually put things together .
it &apos;s not just code for america , it &apos;s fellows , there are hundreds of people around the country who stand up and write government apps every day in their own communities .
they didn &apos;t give up the government .
they &apos;re terribly frustrated with it , but they &apos;re not complaining about it , they &apos;re repairing it .
however , recently , something weird has happened in my life and my career that has led me to completely rethink my relationship with this work .
and these people know something that we &apos;ve lost from our eyes .
and that &apos;s when you all forget all your feelings about politics and the snake in the workforce and all the other things that we &apos;re really excited about , is government , at the core , in the words of tim o &apos;reilly , &quot; what we do in common , that we can &apos;t do alone . &quot;
today , a lot of people have given up the government .
and if you &apos;re one of those people , i ask you to think about it , because things are changing .
the politics doesn &apos;t change ; the government is in change .
and because the government ultimately exhausts its power from us -- remember , &quot; we the people ? &quot; -- as we think about it , it &apos;s going to affect how this change happens .
i didn &apos;t know very much about government when i started this program .
and like a lot of people , i thought the government was all about choosing people into a office .
now , after two years , i &apos;ve come to the conclusion that it &apos;s all about communities that are about thylacines .
this is the call center for service and information .
this strange event was that i was writing a book recently -- a biography called a &quot; pray , &quot; love &quot; -- that , unlike all my previous books for some reason , went out into the world and became a big mega-event , international bestseller thing .
that &apos;s where you usually come out when you call in your city 311 .
if you ever have a chance to work in your urban call center , like our fellow scott silverman , as part of the program -- in fact , they all do -- you &apos;ll see that the people , the government , are calling for a lot of different problems , including that there &apos;s a thylacine in their house .
so scott gets this fruit .
he &apos;s typing &quot; thylacines &quot; into the official database .
and he doesn &apos;t really have an idea . he starts with the animal beginner .
and finally , he says , &quot; look , can you just open all the doors in your house and play very loud music and see if the livestock skin ? &quot;
and that worked . applause for scott .
but that wasn &apos;t the end of the thylacines .
boston has not just a call center .
it has an app , a web and cell phone app , called citizens connect .
and the result is , no matter where i come from , i &apos;m treated as if i &apos;m running out of the demise .
we didn &apos;t write this app .
this is the work of very smart people at the office of the new urban mechanics in boston .
one day -- this is an actual report -- this is what came in : &quot; thylacine rat in my trash bin . can &apos;t tell if it &apos;s dead .
how do i get them away ? &quot;
but what happens to citizens connect is different .
scott was talking from human to human .
but on citizens connect , it &apos;s all public , so everyone can see it .
and in this case , it saw a neighbor .
and the next post that we got was , &quot; i went over there , found the garbage ton behind the house .
thylacine rat ? yes . alive ? yap .
seriously -- refuse to the demise !
turned the garbage ton on the page . went home .
good night , sweet thylacine rat . &quot;
pretty simple .
that &apos;s great . this is where the digital hits the physical .
and it &apos;s also a good example of how to get the government into crowdsourcing .
but it &apos;s also a great example of government as a platform .
and i &apos;m not necessarily talking about a technical definition of the platform .
i &apos;m talking more about a platform for people to help themselves and to help others .
one citizen helped another citizen , but the government played a central role here .
she connected these two people .
so the voodooists like to say , &quot; you white people go to church and talk about god .
for example , you get very worried about me and say , &quot; don &apos;t you fear you &apos;re never going to overcome this success ?
and you could have connected them to national services if they were needed , but a neighbor is a much better and cheaper alternative to state services .
if one neighbor is helping the other , we are strengthening our communities .
let &apos;s call the animal catcher , it costs a lot of money .
one of the most important things is that we need to think about it is that government is not the same as politics .
and most people understand that , but they think that one is the input of the other .
that our contribution to the system is the choice .
how often did we choose a political leader -- and sometimes we used a lot of energy to choose a new political leader -- and then we sit back and we expect the government , our values to reflect and fulfill our needs , and then didn &apos;t change much ?
that &apos;s because the government is like a farther ocean , and politics is the top 15 inches .
and what &apos;s below that is what we call bureaucracy .
and we use this word with such contempt .
are you not afraid that you &apos;re going to continue your whole life and never create a book that anyone in the world is interested in ? never again ?
but it &apos;s this contempt that makes this thing that we own and that we pay for be something that works against us , something else , and then we deformed ourselves .
people seem to think politics is sexy .
if we want this institution to work for us , we need to make bureaucracy sexy .
because that &apos;s where the actual government work is happening .
we need to focus on the government &apos;s machinery .
so the occupapythesec movement did it .
did you see these guys ?
it &apos;s a group of troubled citizens who wrote a very detailed 325 page report , which is an answer to the sec-memo about the legislation of finance reform .
this is not being politically active , this is bureaucratic .
well , for those of us who &apos;ve given up the government , it &apos;s time for us to think about the world we want to leave to our children .
okay , it &apos;s really courageous .
you have to imagine the enormous challenges that they have to face .
do we really believe that we can do what we need to do without improving the institution that can act on behalf of all of us ?
a government is absolutely necessary , but it has to be more efficient .
the good news is that technology makes it possible to fundamentally reconstruct the function of government , in a way that can actually achieve something by strengthening society .
and there &apos;s a generation that has grown up with the internet , and that knows that it &apos;s not that hard to do things together , you just have to build systems that are right .
now the average age of our fellows is 28 , so i &apos;m , unfortunately , almost one generation older than most of you .
this is a generation that grew up seeing their voice for granted .
they &apos;re not fighting this battle that we all fight for , who &apos;s allowed to speak ; they &apos;re all allowed to speak .
you can make your mind , on any channel at any time , and you do .
so when you &apos;re faced with the government problem , don &apos;t worry so much about using your voices .
but it would be worse if i didn &apos;t remember that , over 20 years ago , when i first told as a teenager that i wanted to be a writer , i was faced with the same kind of anxiety response .
they use their hands .
they use their hands to write applications that improve government &apos;s work .
and these apps let us use our hands to improve our communities .
that could be to unleash a hydrant , to hunt an unclaw , to turn a trash can with a thylacine rat .
and sure , we could have been able to unleash these hydrants all the time , and many people do .
but these apps are like little digital memories that we &apos;re not just consumers , and we &apos;re not just consumers of government who are paying taxes and receiving services .
we are more than that , we are citizens .
and we &apos;re not going to improve government until we improve citizenship .
so the question that i have for all of you here : when it comes to the big , important things that we need to do together , all together , will we be just a lot of voices , or will we be a lot of hands as well ?
thank you .
people said , don &apos;t you be afraid to never succeed ?
my role is usually to explain to people how wonderful the new technologies that are coming up are going to be , and i thought , because i &apos;m here among friends , i would tell you what i really think . and also try to look back and understand what &apos;s going on here , with these incredible jumps forward , which are so fast that we can barely keep up .
i &apos;m going to start by just showing you a single boring slide .
... you could just show the slide for a second .
this is a slide that i randomly chose from my folder .
i &apos;m not talking about the details of the slide , but rather the general shape .
this slide shows data from us about the performance of risc processors compared to the performance of a local area networks .
what &apos;s interesting here is that this slide , like some others , which we often meet in our field , is a kind of semi-logarithmic curve .
in other words , every step here corresponds to a potential in the performance scale .
and that &apos;s a novelty that we need to use this type of scale on semi-logarithmic curves in the field of technology .
something very strange is happening here .
are you not afraid that the humiliation of a saying will kill you ?
this is basically what i &apos;m going to talk about here .
so , if you could turn the lights back on , please .
just a little bit brighter , because i &apos;m going to draw something on the paper here .
now , why do we draw graphs in technology on semi-logarithmic curves ?
the reason for this is , if i were to draw it on a normal curve , where , say , these are years , so the timeline of a kind , and this is a random measure of the technology that i want to present with a graph , the graph is going to be silly .
they look like this .
and that doesn &apos;t tell us much .
now , if i want to record another technology , let &apos;s say , a transportation technology , that would be very inrational on the semi-logarithmic scale , in a flat line .
but if something like this happens here , it changes the qualitative circumstances .
so if the transportation technology continued as fast as the microprocessor technology , we could go into a taxi tomorrow , and in 30 seconds we would be in tokyo .
are you not afraid that you &apos;re going to walk into this craft for your life and you &apos;re never going to get something out of it , and that you &apos;re going to die on a scrambled dreams -- your mouth filled with the bitter ashes of failure ?
but it &apos;s not that fast .
this has never happened before in the history of technology development , this kind of recursive growth , in which the scale is expanding exponentially every few years .
the question i want to ask you now is , if you look at these exponential curves , you see , they don &apos;t go on forever .
it &apos;s not possible that everything is evolving forever and forever as fast as it is now .
there are two options .
either it becomes a classic curve like this , until something completely new is going to happen , or it &apos;s going to happen here .
that &apos;s kind of what it is .
well , i &apos;m an optimist , so i think something like this is going to happen .
that &apos;s really what it means , then that means that we &apos;re in the middle of a transition right now .
we &apos;re here on this line , in a transition from the world so far to a new kind of world .
so , you know .
so the question that i want to ask , and i often ask myself , is how this new world is going to be ?
what is this new state that the world is slowly embracing ?
because the transition seems to be very , very confusing when you &apos;re in the middle of it .
when i was a kid , there was the future somewhere in the year 2000 , and people often talked about what was going to happen in 2000 .
now here &apos;s a conference where people are talking about the future , and you realize that the future is still in 2000 .
beyond that , we &apos;re not going to go .
so in other words , the future has been shrinking by a year since i &apos;ve been in this world .
i think the reason for that is that we realize that there &apos;s something going on .
the transition is happening . we can all feel it .
and we know that it just doesn &apos;t make sense at the moment to try to look into the future for 30 or 50 years , because everything will be so different that a simple mainframe of what we &apos;re doing now simply doesn &apos;t make sense .
the answer -- the short answer to all these questions is , you know .
so i want to talk about what this might be , this transition that we &apos;re in right now .
to do that , i &apos;m going to talk first about some other things that really don &apos;t have to do with technology or computers .
because i think to really understand this , we have to step back and look at the thing on a longer scale of time .
and that is , i want to look at this on the earth &apos;s time scale .
i think the whole picture makes sense if you divide it into a few billion steps .
so let &apos;s go back , 2.5 billion years , and the earth was a big , sterile stone clump with a lot of floating chemicals on it .
now , if you look at the way these chemicals were organized , it gives us a pretty good picture of how they did that .
i also think there are theories that start to understand how it all started with rna , but i &apos;m going to tell you a simplified story of it , which is that at that time , little oil droplet was smashing around , which had different kinds of recipes for chemicals .
some of these oil droplet contain a special combination of chemicals that allowed them to integrate other chemicals from outside and grow .
all of them who were like that started to divide .
yeah , i &apos;m afraid of all these things .
these little oil droplet were the most primitive cell form .
but these oil droplet were not alive in today &apos;s sense , because every single one of them was just a small , random recipe of chemicals .
and every time it divided , the chemicals in it spread to unequal quantities .
so every droplet was a little bit different .
in fact , the droplet grew , which was a more optimal composition for growth , faster than others , and more and more chemicals from outside , and shared faster .
so these tends to survive longer , and they multiply in a larger scale .
so this is just a very simple chemical form of life , but more interesting , when these droplet learned a trick about abstraction .
in some way that we don &apos;t quite understand yet , these droplet has learned the ability to rewrite information .
they &apos;ve learned to store the recipe of the cell as information in a particular chemical form that we call dna .
in other words , in this mindless , evolutionary way , they found a way to allow them to write down what they were made of , so that this information could be stored and copied .
we dance in the temple and become god . &quot;
and i always had them .
the amazing thing about this is that this kind of information to store over the time of 2.5 billion years that it came out was the same .
in fact , the recipe for us is our genes , from the exact same code and the same writing .
and every being is using exactly the same letters and the same code .
we are so far that we can , just for pleasure , write things in this code .
and i &apos;ve got 100 micrograms of a white sweater here , which i &apos;m trying to keep in airports from security staff .
in that , what i &apos;ve done is i &apos;ve taken this code -- the code is made up of normal letters that we use to symbolize -- and i &apos;ve written my business card on a piece of dna , and i &apos;ve amplified it 10 times .
so if somebody wants a hundred million copies of my business card , i have enough for everyone in this room and even for everybody in the world , and it &apos;s right here .
if i had actually been an egoist , i would have written it on a virus and released it into the room .
so what &apos;s the next step ?
the writing of dna was an interesting step .
and i &apos;ve been afraid of a lot more things that no one would ever know .
and that made these cells -- that made them happy for another billion years .
but then another very interesting step happened , where things became completely different , which is that these cells started to communicate and share information , so that communities started to emerge from cells .
i don &apos;t know if you knew that , but bacteria can actually exchange their dna .
that &apos;s why , for example , the consistency of antibiotics is growing .
some bacteria have figured out how to stay away from penicillin and put this information together with other bacteria into dna , and now we have lots of bacteria that are resistant to penicillin , because the bacteria communicate with each other .
so this communication now allowed the reason of communities that were in a certain sense in the same boat ; they were synertic .
so they either survived together , or they went together , which meant that if a community was successful , all the individuals of the community were more repeated and preferred by evolution .
the transition site is now where these communities were so close together that they decided to write the recipe for the entire community into a drawing chain on the dna .
and the next interesting phase took about another billion years .
at this point , we have multi-cellular communities , communities of many different cell types , which work together as a single organism .
like algae -- and other frightening things .
in fact , we &apos;re also such a multi-celled community .
we have many cells that are no longer on their own .
your skin cells are useless without heart cells , muscle cells , brain cells and so on .
so these communities began to evolve so that the level in which evolution occurred was no longer the single cell , but the whole cell community that we call organism .
the next step has happened within these communities .
the cell communities began to abstract information again .
and they developed special structures that did nothing but process information within the organism .
and these are the neural structures .
so the neurons are the information processing system that these cell communities have built .
they started to educate specialists within the community , special structures , which were responsible for learning , understanding and maintaining information .
but when it comes to writing , i &apos;ve been thinking about it recently , and i &apos;m wondering , why ?
and this was the brain and the nervous system of these communities .
this gave them an evolutionary advantage .
because at this point , an individual -- learning has now happened within the period of time of a single organism &apos;s lifespan , rather than over this evolutionary period .
so an organism could learn , for example , not to eat a certain fruit because it tasted bad and made it sick , the last time it ate it .
now this could happen within the lifetime of a single organism , whereas hundreds of thousands of years ago , because this information had to be learned evolutionarily by the individuals who died because of this fruit , because these information processing structures were not there .
so the nervous system has the evolutionary process with these particular information structures , because evolution could now happen within an individual .
it could happen within a time-frame of learning .
what happened after that is that the individual organisms found a way to communicate with each other .
so for example , the most sophisticated version of this communication is human language .
it &apos;s a pretty amazing invention when you think about it .
is that reasonable ?
i have a very complicated , messy and confused idea in my head .
i &apos;m sitting here giving basically grunting sounds of me , hoping to create a similar confused idea in your head , which has some similarity to my original idea .
so we take something very complicated , turn it into sound , a sequence of sound , and we produce something very complicated in the minds of others .
so this now allows us to work again as a unified organism .
and what we &apos;ve actually done , we , humanity , is we &apos;ve started to abstract .
we go through the same stages that multi-cell organisms have gone through -- presenting , processing , the abstraction of our methods that we hold data .
for example , the invention of language was a small step in this direction .
telephones , computers , videos , cd-roms and so on are all our specialized mechanisms that we built in our community to be able to handle this information .
and it connects us all together to something much bigger , and it &apos;s also able to evolve faster than we have been .
so today , evolution can happen in the time period of microseconds .
is it logical that somebody should be expected to be afraid to do the work that they feel like they &apos;re working towards ?
you &apos;ve also seen tys &apos; little evolutionary example , where he showed a little bit of evolution in the convolution program , right in front of your eyes .
so now we &apos;ve faded the timeline again .
the first steps in history that i told you took a billion years to play .
the next steps , like the nervous system and the brain , took a few hundred million years .
then the next steps , like language and so on , took less than a million years .
and these next steps , like electronics , seem to take a few decades .
the process feeds on itself and becomes , i think , auto-catalytic is the word for it -- when something increases its speed of change .
the more it changes , the faster it changes .
and i think that &apos;s what we &apos;re seeing here in this explosion curve .
we see the process that feeds on itself .
and what &apos;s going on with the creative enterprises that they make us insecure about each other &apos;s state of mind -- in a way that other professions don &apos;t do ?
i live from building computers , and i know that i couldn &apos;t use the mechanism that i use to build computers without the recent advances in computer technology .
my current activity is to design objects with such a high complexity , that it &apos;s impossible for me to design them in the traditional sense .
i don &apos;t know what every single transistor does in the connection machine .
it has billions of them .
what i do instead , and what the designers of thinking machines do , is we think at a certain level of abstraction , we give this to the machine , and the machine makes something that goes far beyond our capabilities , better and faster than we could ever do .
and she &apos;s doing it partly with methods that we don &apos;t even really understand .
one way that &apos;s particularly interesting , and one of the things that i &apos;ve used a lot recently , is evolution itself .
and what we &apos;re doing is we &apos;re installing an evolutionary process in the machine , which is going on in the microsecond area .
to give you an example , in the most extreme cases , we can create a program that evolves from random instructions .
we say , &quot; computers , generic please a hundred million randomly chosen sequences of instructions .
my father , for example , was a chemist , and i can &apos;t remember a situation in his 40 years as a chemist in which he was asked if he was afraid to be a chemist .
now , please execute all these randomly chosen instructions , execute all the programs , and then finally choose the ones that i &apos;m going to do the next one . &quot;
so in other words , i first define what i want .
let &apos;s say i want to sort numbers , which is a simple example that i &apos;ve already used for this .
so find programs that are most likely to be the number of numbers .
of course , the chance of randomly chosen instructions is very small that they &apos;re going to sort numbers by accident , so none of the instructions are actually going to do this .
but one of them may be lucky with two numbers in the right order .
now i say , &quot; well , computers , now take the 10 percent of the sequences that have come the closest to my prescription .
store them off , delete the rest .
now , all the remaining ones that the numbers have best sorted .
and it &apos;s with a recombination method , analog to reproduction . &quot;
with your chemist blockage , john -- how are you going to do that ?
take two programs , and they produce children through the exchange of their subroutines , and the children inherit the features of the subroutines from the two programs .
so now i have a new generation of programs that have come from combinations of programs that have come a little closer to the prescriptions than others .
say , &quot; please repeat this process . &quot;
reevaluating them .
maybe introduce some mutations .
and try it again with another generation .
all of these generations take a few milliseconds .
and so i can make evolution go through the computer over millions of years in a few minutes , or more complicated cases , a few hours .
finally , i get programs that can perfectly sort numbers .
in fact , these programs are so much more efficient than any program i could have ever written by hand .
it just didn &apos;t happen , you know ?
so when i look at these programs , i can &apos;t tell you how they work .
i tried to understand them .
they &apos;re obscure and strange programs .
but they do the job .
i know and i &apos;m sure you &apos;re going to do the job because you come out of a series of hundreds of thousands of programs that have done the job .
because their lives depended on whether they were doing the job right .
i sat in a 747 together with marvin minsky , and he pulled out a map and he says , &quot; oh look . look at that .
it says , &apos; this airplane is made up of hundreds of thousands of pieces that work together to make your flight safer . &apos; doesn &apos;t that make you more confident ? &quot;
we know that a process of development is not optimal when it gets too complicated .
so we start to rely on computers for a process that is very different from classical engineering .
and because you &apos;re obsessed , you &apos;re taken in by the mind . how can you be harmed ?
but to be fair -- the chemical group , over the centuries , did not get the reputation of alcohol addictive manic depressed people .
it allows us to produce things with much higher complexity than the normal methods would allow us to do .
and yet , we don &apos;t really understand the possibilities of this yet .
so , in a way , technology is outlapping us .
we &apos;re using these programs now to make the computers much faster , so that we &apos;re able to do these processes even faster .
so there &apos;s a feedback .
it gets faster and faster , and i think that &apos;s why it seems so confusing .
because all these new technologies today feed themselves from themselves .
we take off .
we &apos;ve come to a point where the analog is at the time when a cell organisms evolved into multi-cell organisms .
so we &apos;re the amoeba , and we can &apos;t quite figure out what the hell we &apos;re actually creating here .
but we writers seem to have this kind of call , but not just the writers , but the creatives of all genres seem to have this reputation of being mentally unstable .
we &apos;re in the middle of this transition point .
but i really believe that something else comes after us .
i think it &apos;s very high to say that we are the end product of evolution .
and i think all of us here are part of the creation of whatever &apos;s next .
well , the lunch is before , and i think i &apos;ll stop here before i &apos;m elected .
my story starts right here in rajasthan , about two years ago .
i was under the star sky in the desert with sufi singer mukhtiar ali .
we talked about the fact that nothing has changed since the age of ancient indian epos &quot; mahabharata . &quot;
if we wanted to travel indians at the time , we jumped into a car and swirled over the sky .
now we &apos;re doing this with airplanes .
all you have to do is look at the bitter death numbers of really great minds from the 20th century alone , the young and often die of your own hand .
at the time , when the great indian prince of the war was thirst , he took a bow , shot in the ground and water .
now we do this with drills and machines .
we came to the conclusion that magic and magic were replaced by machines .
that made me really sad .
i got a little scared of technology .
i was afraid that i could lose the ability to enjoy the sunset without camera and without tweet to my friends .
i found that technology should make magic possible and not kill .
when i was a little girl , my grandfather gave me his little silver pocket clock .
this piece of 50-year-old technology became the most magical thing for me .
she became a golden access to a world full of pirates and unfortunate ships and images in my mind .
and even those who didn &apos;t actually do suicide seemed to be really neglected by their talents .
it seemed to me that our fancy clocks and cameras were dreaming of it .
they kept us from being inspired .
and so i went into the world of technology to see how i could use it to enable magic rather than killing .
at 16 , i started illustrating books .
when i saw the ipad , i saw it as a device for storytelling that readers can connect around the world .
it can know how to hold it .
it can know where we are .
it brings images and text together , and animation , sounds and touch .
storytelling needs more and more senses .
but what do we do with this ?
norman mailer said just before he died in his last interview : every one of my books killed me a little bit further .
i &apos;m just going to khoya , an interactive ipad app .
this says , &quot; put your fingers on every light . &quot;
and so -- here it says , &quot; this box belongs ... &quot; i write my name .
and from me , i become a figure in the book .
every once in a while , a letter goes down for me -- and the ipad knows where i live -- it &apos;s really addressed to me .
the child in me is really excited about these possibilities .
i talked a lot about magic .
i mean , not magicians and dragons , but the magic of childhood , the ideas that we all had as children .
fireflies in a glass , i always found quite exciting .
so here you have to dump the ipad and let the fireflies out .
an extraordinary statement that you can make about your life &apos;s work .
and they light the way through the rest of the book .
another idea that fascinated me as a child is that a whole galaxy can be put in a single marble .
and that &apos;s why every book and world is becoming a little murmur that i &apos;m going to draw here to the magic device in the machine .
and this opens up a map .
fantasy books have always had maps , but these maps were static .
this map grows and glows and serves for guidance in the rest of the book .
it also shows up in other places in the book .
i &apos;m going in here .
it &apos;s also important for me to create something that is indian , but also very timely .
these are the apsaras .
but we don &apos;t even listen to somebody saying this , because we &apos;ve known this kind of statement for so long . somehow we &apos;ve accepted the notion so internal and collective that creativity and suffering somehow belong together , and that art -- at the end -- always leads to the soul .
we &apos;ve all heard about fees and nymps , but how many people outside india know their indian colleagues , the apsaras ?
the poor apsaras were caught in indras for thousands of years in an old , muffy book .
and we bring them back in a contemporary story for children .
it &apos;s a story that &apos;s dealing with new issues , like the environmental crisis .
the environmental crisis , a big problem of the last 10 years , is that kids are in their rooms , in their computers , without going out .
but now , with mobile technology , we can take our children into the natural world with their technology .
in an interaction of the book , you &apos;re sent to a search . you have to go out and collect pictures of natural objects with the camera of the ipad .
as a child , i had collections of sticks , rocks , boxes and shells .
somehow , kids don &apos;t do it anymore .
this childhood ritual is brought back . you have to go out and take a picture of a flower in a chapter .
the question i want to ask everybody here today is : is this idea completely fine for you ?
in another chapter , you have to photograph and tag a piece of tree mri .
so you actually create a digital collection of photographs that you can then put online .
a child in london shows the picture of a food and says , &quot; oh , i &apos;ve seen a food today . &quot;
a child in india says , &quot; i &apos;ve seen a monkey today . &quot;
this creates a kind of social network around a digital collection of photographs that you actually took .
there &apos;s a variety of ways that magic can connect the world and technology together .
in the next book , we &apos;re going to plan an interaction where you use the video of the ipads , and through augmented reality , you &apos;re going to see an animation of 11 that appear on a plant in front of the house .
in one place , the screen filled with leaves .
you have to make the sound of the wind , blow it away and read the rest of the book .
we all move to a world where the natural forces of technology can come closer and closer in the magic and technology .
do you feel comfortable with this ? because with just one centimeter , i don &apos;t feel comfortable with this notion at all .
we use the energy of the sun .
we bring our children and ourselves closer to the natural world and to the magic , fun and the love of our childhood through the simple medium of a story .
thank you .
this is really an extraordinary honor for me .
i spend most of my time looking at people , prisons or death cells .
i spend most of my time with the socially weakest in the social settlements and in places where there &apos;s a lot of hopelessness .
to be here at ted , to see and to hear how stimulating that is , has given me a lot of power .
in the short period of time here , i realized one thing : ted has an identity .
you can say things that have influence in the world .
and sometimes , when something comes over ted , it gets a meaning and force that it wouldn &apos;t otherwise have .
i find them abyss .
i say that because i think identity is very important .
we &apos;ve seen some fantastic presentations .
i think we &apos;ve learned that the words of a teacher matter , but that the words of a dedicated teacher are particularly meaningful .
as a doctor , you can do good . but as a careful doctor , you can do more .
and that &apos;s why i want to talk about the power of identity .
i didn &apos;t learn this in my work , by the way , as a lawyer .
i learned that from my grandmother .
i became big in a family , a traditional african-american household dominated by a matriarch , and this matriarch was my grandmother .
she was a keyboard , strong woman , she had an impact .
she had the last word in every family argument .
look at these amazing demonstrations : voodoo acolyths in a trancestate , the glowing coal without burning , an amazing illustration of the ability of the mind to influence the body in a way that it prevents when it &apos;s translated into a state of extreme arousal .
and i find it dangerous . and i don &apos;t want to watch it taken over to the next century .
she was also the starting point of a lot of disputes in our family .
she was the daughter of a slave family .
their parents were born slaves in the 1840s in virginia .
she was born around 1880 , and the experience of slavery really shaped her world view very much .
my grandmother was strong , but she was also loving .
when i met her as a little boy , she came up to me and hugged me .
she pressed me so hard that i could barely breathe , and then she let me go .
one or two hours later , when i met her , she came up to me and said , &quot; bryan , do you feel my hug ? &quot;
and when i said &quot; no , &quot; she hugged me again . when i said &quot; yes , &quot; she left me alone .
she was doing something that you always wanted to be close to her .
i think it &apos;s better if we encourage our great creative papers to live .
the only problem with it was that she had 10 children .
my mother was the youngest of her 10 children .
sometimes , if i wanted to spend time with her , it was hard to get her attention .
my cousins were running around everywhere .
i remember , i must have been eight or nine , that i woke up one morning and went to the living room . all my cousins were running around .
my grandmother was sitting at the end of the room staring at me .
first of all , i thought that was a game .
i looked at her and smiled , but she looked very serious .
this went on for 15 or 20 minutes , and then she got up and she came over to me , and she took me through the hand and she said , &quot; come on , bryan . you and i , we have to talk . &quot;
i remember it was yesterday .
and i definitely know that for me , in my situation , it would be very dangerous to start to shrink this dark path of suspection , in particular -- especially the circumstance in which i &apos;m in my career right now .
i &apos;ll never forget it .
she took me out and said , &quot; bryan , i &apos;m going to tell you something , but you have to promise you &apos;re not going to say it . &quot;
i said , &quot; promise , grandmother . &quot;
she said , &quot; honoring ? &quot; i said , &quot; yes . &quot;
she sat me down and looked at me . she said , &quot; i want you to know i was watching you . &quot;
she said , &quot; i think you &apos;re special . &quot;
she said , &quot; i think you can do anything you want to do . &quot;
i &apos;ll never forget that .
then she said , &quot; you just have to promise me three things , bryan . &quot;
i said , &quot; ok , grandmother . &quot;
that means -- look , i &apos;m pretty young . i &apos;m only about 40 years old .
she said , &quot; first of all , i promise you will always love your mom . &quot;
she said , &quot; your mom is my baby , and you have to promise that you will always take care of her . &quot;
i adored my mother , so i said , &quot; yeah , grandmother , i &apos;m going to do that . &quot;
then she said , &quot; well , the next thing is , you &apos;ll always do the right thing , &quot; even if it &apos;s hard to do the right thing . &quot;
i thought , &quot; yeah , grandma . i promise . &quot;
after all , she said , &quot; the last thing you have to promise me is , &quot; you will never drink alcohol . &quot;
well , i was nine years old , and so i said , &quot; yeah , grandmother . i promise . &quot;
i grew up in the country in the old , rural south , and i have a brother who &apos;s a year older and a year younger sister .
when i was about 14 or 15 , one day my brother came home and brought this sixpack of beer with me and my sister and i went to the forest with us .
we were just silly around there as well as we were .
i have maybe another 40 years of work in me .
then he took a swallow of beer and offered my sister one , and she assumed , and then she offered me one .
i said , &quot; no , no , no . all right . just do you . i don &apos;t want a beer . &quot;
my brother said , &quot; well , go ahead . we &apos;re going to do this today , you &apos;re going to do everything else we do .
i had something , your sister had something . go ahead , drink a beer . &quot;
i said , &quot; i don &apos;t want to . just do it . just do it . &quot;
my brother stared at me .
he said , &quot; what &apos;s going on with you ? well , drink something . &quot;
then he looked at me in the face , and he said , &quot; oh no , you &apos;re not still doing crazy because of the conversation with grandmother ? &quot;
i said , &quot; what are you talking about ? &quot;
he said , &quot; grandmother tells all the grandchildren that they are special . &quot;
and it &apos;s extremely likely that everything that i &apos;m going to write from now on is being reviewed by the world as the work that came after the descended success of my last book , right ?
i was devastated .
i &apos;m going to tell you something .
i probably shouldn &apos;t do that .
this may be transmitted publicly .
i &apos;m 52 years old , and i confess that i &apos;ve never drunk a drop of alcohol .
i &apos;m not saying that because i think it &apos;s virtuous . i say that because identity is power .
if we create the right kind of identity , we can tell the people around us things that they don &apos;t believe first .
we can get them to do things they thought they couldn &apos;t do .
of course , my grandmother would say to all of her grandchildren that they &apos;re special .
my grandfather was in prison during the prohibition .
i &apos;m saying it right now , because we &apos;re all kind of friends here -- it &apos;s extremely likely that my biggest success is behind me .
my uncle died of alcohol induced diseases .
and she believed that these were the subjects that we had to take care of .
i tried to say something about our justice system .
this country is different from 40 years ago .
in 1972 , 300,000 people were in the prison .
today , it &apos;s 2.3 million .
the united states today has the highest incarceration rate in the world .
seven million people are discharged with currency , or with conditional punishment .
in my opinion , mass incarcerations have fundamentally changed our world .
in socially weak and black parts of the population , there &apos;s despair and hopelessness , because of these changes .
oh , jesus , what a thought !
one out of three male black men between 18 and 30 is in prison , abandoned on currency , or with conditional exposure .
in urban communities all over the country -- from los angeles to philadelphia , baltimore to washington -- 50 to 60 percent of all black young men are either in prison , in prison , on currency , or on conditional exposure .
but our system is not only shaped by questions that have to do with racial belonging , but it &apos;s also deformed by poverty .
we have a justice system in this country that &apos;s much better at treating them when they &apos;re rich and guilty than poor and innocent .
wealth , not debt , affects the outcome .
and yet , we seem to be quite pleased with this .
a politics of fear and anger has convinced us that these problems are not our problems .
we &apos;ve lost touch .
i think that &apos;s interesting .
there are some very interesting developments .
these are the kind of thoughts that can get someone to start at 9 a.m. , drink gin . and i don &apos;t want to .
my home state of alabama permanently draws the right to vote when they &apos;re sentenced to criminally .
here and today in alabama , 34 percent of the male black population have permanently lost their right to vote .
we predict that in 10 years , the rate of recognition of civil honor rights will be as high as before the election of the election law .
the silence is earth-numbing .
i represent children .
many of my clients are very young .
the united states of america is the only country in the world that convicts three-ten-year-old children to death in prison .
in this country , we have life-long sentences for children without conditional exposure .
we already have a lot of procedures .
the only country in the world .
i &apos;d rather keep doing this work that i love .
i represent people in death cells .
the death penalty question is an interesting question .
we think that because we were taught that the real question is , did a human deserve to die for a crime of him ?
this is a very sensitive question .
but you can also think about it differently , depending on how we see our identity .
the other view is not : did anyone deserve death for a crime , but : did we deserve to kill ?
i think that &apos;s fascinating .
the death penalty in america defines itself by error .
on nine people that we executed , one that we found for innocent comes from being discharged and released from death row .
an amazing error rate . one in nine innocent .
but what &apos;s interesting is the unique sound of the song , the rhythm of dance in every culture .
now , of all the people i &apos;ve met , the michael i from the sierra nevada de santa marta in northern colombia , were the most extraordinary .
so the question is , how ?
i think that &apos;s fascinating .
we would never let anyone fly with an airplane if for nine planes that lift off , we would crash one .
but somehow we can get rid of this problem .
it &apos;s not our problem .
it &apos;s not our burden .
it &apos;s not our fight .
i &apos;m talking a lot about these questions .
i &apos;m talking about race and the question of whether we &apos;re right to kill .
and it &apos;s exciting because i teach my students african-american history . i talk about slavery .
i &apos;m talking about terrorism , the time at the end of reconstruction , all the way to the beginning of world war ii .
after some time of reflection , it seems to me that to continue writing , i have to design a kind of protective psychological construct .
we don &apos;t really know very much about it .
but for african-americans in this country , it was a time of terror .
in many areas , people had to be afraid of lynchmobs .
or before bombs .
it was the fear of terror that shaped their lives .
these older people are now coming to me and saying , &quot; mr , stevenson , you &apos;re talking , you &apos;re giving talks . you &apos;re telling people to stop saying that for the first time in the history of our nation , we have to deal with terrorism : after 9 / 11 . &quot;
they say , &quot; no -- tell people that we grew up with it . &quot;
and after terrorism , of course , the racial race and decades of the racely motivated submission and apartheid .
and yet , in our country , there &apos;s a dynamic -- we don &apos;t like to talk about our problems .
we don &apos;t like to talk about our story .
somehow , from now on , i have to find a way of writing a safe distance between me and my very natural climbing about how the reaction to the written will be .
and that &apos;s why we don &apos;t really understand the meaning of our actions in the historical context .
we &apos;re constantly hitting each other .
we &apos;re always creating new tensions and conflicts .
it &apos;s hard for us to talk about race , and i think that &apos;s because we &apos;re not willing to approach the process of truth and reconciliation .
in south africa , people have understood that the racial race is not overcome without the willingness to truth and reconciliation .
even after the genocide in rwanda , there was this willingness , but not in this country .
i &apos;ve given some talks in germany about death penalty .
it was fascinating , because one of the scientists stood up after my talk and said , &quot; you know , it &apos;s deeply disturbing to hear you speak like this . &quot;
he said , &quot; in germany , there &apos;s no death penalty .
and of course , in germany , they can never be there . &quot;
as i &apos;ve been looking for models in the past year to do this , i &apos;ve also been looking for the past , and i &apos;ve been trying to find other societies to see if they might have better or more sensible ideas about it than we do , how to help creatives deal with the emotional risks associated with creativity .
it was silent . then a woman said , &quot; with our story , it &apos;s impossible that we ever refer to the systematic killing of people .
it would be unconscious of us to make conscious and targeted people . &quot;
i thought about it .
how it would feel to live in a world where the german state made people move , especially if there were a lot of jews under it .
it would be intolerable .
it would be unconscious .
and yet , here in this country , in the states of the old south , we put people -- here &apos;s the risk of being convicted to death , 11 times higher than if the victim is white , than if it &apos;s black . 22 times higher when the accumulated black is black and the victim knows -- in the same state that the body of yellow people ruin .
and yet , there &apos;s this mental disconnect .
i think our identity is threatened .
if we don &apos;t deal with it , with these difficult topics , then the positive and wonderful things are also affected .
this is a search that took me to ancient greece and the old rome .
we love innovation .
we love technology and creativity .
we love entertainment .
but finally , these realities are overwhelmed by suffering , abuse , degradation , exposure .
it seems to me to unite both .
because ultimately , we &apos;re talking about the fact that we need more hope , more engagement , more commitment , to be able to be in a complex world .
for me , time is to get up , think and talk about the poor , the disadvantaged , the ones that will never be at ted .
but think in a way that is integrated into our own lives .
we all have to believe in the end of the day things that we can &apos;t see .
we do . as rational as we are , as much as we estimate intellect .
please follow me , because the circle will reconnect .
innovation , creativity , and development are not just coming out of our heads .
they come from ideas that are driven by persuasion in our hearts .
it &apos;s this head-heart connection that i believe is driving us not only to be open to all the bright and exciting things , but also to the dark and problematic .
vaclav havel , the great chief politician , once said that .
&quot; when we fought against oppression in eastern europe , we wanted everything , but what we most needed was hope , a mental orientation , a willingness to be , sometimes in hopeless places , and witness . &quot;
this mental orientation is the core of what i think the ted communities need to engage in .
there &apos;s no boundary around technology and design that allows us to be fully human , unless we have eyes and ears for poverty , limitation and injustice .
i want to warn you . this kind of identity requires a lot more of us than if we didn &apos;t care about it .
it &apos;s going to touch you deeply .
as a young lawyer , i had the great privilege of meeting pink parks .
but in ancient greece and rome , people didn &apos;t believe that creativity comes from people , ok ?
woman parks kept coming back to montgomery , where she met two of her oldest friends , these older women , johnnie carr , who had organized the montgomery-bus boycott -- an incredible african-american -- and virginia durr , a white person whose husband , clifford durr , dr. king michael .
so these women came together and just talked .
occasionally , woman carr called me up and said , &quot; bryan , ms. parks comes to the city . we want to talk .
do you want to come and listen ? &quot;
and i said , &quot; yeah , very much . &quot;
she said , &quot; and what are you going to do if you &apos;re here ? &quot;
i said , &quot; i &apos;m going to listen . &quot;
and i went over and just listened .
it was always so inspiring , so volatile .
one day i was sitting there listening to these women , and after a few hours , woman parks turned to me and said , &quot; well , bryan , tell me what the initiative is for the same right . &quot;
they believed that creativity was a kind of divine spirit that comes from a distant , unknown source to people -- for unexplained , unknown reasons .
what are you trying to achieve ? &quot;
i started with my usual talk .
i said , &quot; we &apos;re trying to do something about injustice .
wr wants to help people who have been innocent .
we want to fight bias and discrimination in the criminal justice system .
we want to abolish lifelong sentences without conditional punishment for children .
we want to do something about death penalty .
we want to reduce the number of prisoners .
we want to eliminate mass incarceration . &quot;
i gave my usual talk , and then she looked at me and she said , &quot; mhmm . mhmm . mhmm . &quot;
the greeks called these divine ghosts of creativity .
she said , &quot; that &apos;s going to make you very , very tired . &quot;
then ms. carr leaned up to me , put a finger on my face and said , &quot; and that &apos;s why you have to be very , very brave . &quot;
and that &apos;s why i think the ted community should be potators .
we need to find ways . we need to face these challenges : these problems , this suffering .
because ultimately , our humanity depends on all our humanity .
in my work , i learned very simple things .
i learned some very simple things .
that we &apos;re all more than the worst we &apos;ve ever done .
i think that &apos;s true for every human being on the planet .
when someone lies , they &apos;re not just a liar .
he was known by socrates that he believed he had a demonstration that would share wisdom from a farther away .
if somebody takes something that doesn &apos;t belong to them , they &apos;re not just a thief .
even if you kill someone , it &apos;s not just a murderer .
and because it is , there is a fundamental human dignity that has to respect the law .
i also believe that in many parts of this country , and certainly in many parts of the world , the opposite of poverty is not enough .
i don &apos;t think so .
i believe that in too many places , the opposite of poverty is justice .
and finally , i think even though it &apos;s so dramatic , so beautiful and inspiring , and so inspiring , we &apos;re not going to be measured at the end of our technology , not in the things that we &apos;re developing , not in our intellect and minds .
finally , a society is not measured by how they treat their rich and powerful and privileged , but by how they deal with the poor , the judgment , the incarcerated .
because in this context , we begin to understand the truly amazing things that make us .
sometimes i lose the balance . i end up with a story .
descendants of the ancient tyrannian civilization that populated the caribbean coastal plain of colombia , and as a result of the conquest , this people moved into an isolated volcanic massive rise above the caribbean coastal plain .
the romans had the same idea , called this kind of bodiless creative mind a genius .
sometimes i push too much .
i get tired , like all of us .
sometimes these ideas rush ahead of our thinking in a very important way .
i represent these kids who were convicted of very hard punishment .
i go to the study prison , and i visit a client who may be 13 or 14 years old , and he &apos;s supposed to be on trial as an adult .
and then i wonder , how could this happen ?
how can a judge turn someone into something that they &apos;re not ?
the judge looks at him as an adult , but i see a child .
one night , i stayed up for too long and thought , oh my god , if a judge can turn us into something else , he must have magic forces .
right , bryan , the judge has magic forces .
that &apos;s great . the romans didn &apos;t really think that a genius was a particularly smart individual .
you should also want some .
and because it was late , and i couldn &apos;t think really well , i started working on a mission .
i had a 14-year-old , poor black boy as a client .
and i started with this assignment . the headline said , &quot; assignment to treat my poor , 14-year-old black clients like a privileged , white , 75-year-old top manager . &quot;
in my commission , i explained that misconduct of the state lawyer and the police and the car errors was to consider .
there was a crazy line about the fact that there &apos;s nothing in this country , that there &apos;s only misconduct .
the next morning , i woke up and i didn &apos;t know if i &apos;d just dreamed this crazy post or actually written it .
and to my deployment , i had not only written him , but also sent him to the court .
a few months went over , and i had just forgotten everything .
but finally , i decided , my god , i have to go to the court and do this crazy case .
they believed that a genius was this kind of magical divine creature that was believed to be literally living in the walls of an artist &apos;s studio -- sort of like dobby , the house 11 -- who came out and helped the artist in the work , sort of invisible and created the result of the work .
i got in the car , and i was really overwhelmed -- overwhelmed .
so i went to the court .
and i thought , this is going to be so hard , so painful .
finally , i got out of my car , and i went up the staircase to the court .
when i went up the court staircase , there was an elderly , black man , the janitor in the court .
when he saw me , he came over to me and said , &quot; who are you ? &quot;
i said , &quot; i &apos;m a lawyer . &quot; he said , &quot; you &apos;re a lawyer ? &quot; i said , &quot; yes . &quot;
he came to me and hugged me .
then he whispered me in the ear .
he said , &quot; i &apos;m so proud of you . &quot;
this is brilliant -- there it is , there is the distance i talked about -- the psychological construct that protects you from the consequences of your work .
and i have to say , it gave me power .
it touched something very deep inside me , identity , the ability of each individual , to contribute to a community , to a perspective of hope .
well , i walked into the courtroom .
as soon as the judge saw me .
he said , &quot; mr. stevenson , did you make this crazy assignment ? &quot;
i said , &quot; yes . &quot; and then we started discussing .
more and more people came in just because they were angry .
that i had written these crazy things .
police officers came in and prosecuted state lawyers and office staff .
by the way , the courtroom was full of people who were angry that we were talking about skin color , about poverty , about inequality .
and everybody knew it worked that way , right ?
from my point of view , i saw the janitor going up and down .
he kept looking through the window , and he could hear the whole tohuwabohu .
he went up and down .
finally , this older black man came in with a very concerned facial resting in the courtroom and sat right behind me , almost on the defense bank .
ten minutes later , the judge announced a break .
during the break , a police officer came in that was disturbed by the janitor in the courtroom .
this deputy ran over to the older black .
he said , &quot; jimmy , what do you do in the courtroom ? &quot;
the older black man stood up . he looked at the deputy , then he looked at me , and he said , &quot; i came here to say to this young man , don &apos;t lose the target from the eyes . don &apos;t give up . &quot;
i came to ted because i think many of you have understood that the moral pendulum of the universe is extensive , but that it &apos;s going to increase justice .
the artist of the age was protected from certain things , like , too much narcissism , right ?
that as humans , we are not completely evolved until we take care of human rights and basic values .
that all of our survival is connected to the survival of each individual .
that we need to connect our visions of technology and design , of entertainment and creativity with humanity and compassion and justice .
and most of all , i just want to say to you those of you who see this as well , don &apos;t lose your goal from the eyes . don &apos;t give up .
you &apos;ve seen an obvious wish in this audience , this community , and you &apos;ve heard , to help them and to do something .
what else can we do ?
bryan stevenson : well , there are opportunities everywhere .
if you live in california , there &apos;s a folk decision in this spring that &apos;s about actually doing a effort to redirect something from the money stream that otherwise flows into the politics of punishment .
here in california , for example , you &apos;re going to spend a billion dollars on death penalty in the next five years . a billion dollars .
and yet , 46 percent of all fatalities don &apos;t end with arrests .
if your work was brilliant , you didn &apos;t look at everything for you , everyone knew you had this disembodied genius that helped you .
56 percent of all rape cases don &apos;t come to court .
here &apos;s the opportunity to do something .
this reference will propose that money will be invested in more security forces and security .
i think there are opportunities everywhere .
over the last three decades , the crime rate in america has declined immensely .
this fact is often put into a context with the increased incarceration numbers .
what would you say to someone who believes that ?
well , in fact , the number of violent crimes has not changed very much .
most of the mass incarcerations in this country were not really in the class of violent crime .
it was the misguided crossroads against drugs .
if your work flew -- not entirely your fault , right ?
that &apos;s why the dramatic high numbers come to the prisoners .
we &apos;ve been ripping away from the rhetoric of punishment .
now we have &quot; three violations &quot; laws that bring people behind bars forever , for a bicycle theft , for a little bit of good for the theft , rather than forcing them to give things back to the victims .
i think we need to do more to help people who have become victims of a crime , not less .
and i think that our current punishment philosophy doesn &apos;t help anybody .
i think that &apos;s what we need to change .
bryan , you really made a string here .
they &apos;re an inspiring personality .
thank you for being at ted . thank you .
bin laden &apos;s death has an increased risk of riding .
everybody knew your genius was a little bit lam .
in somalia , famine . speaker 3 : pepper spray of police .
bad cartels . speaker 5 : dangerous cruise ships .
six : social deterioration . speaker 7 : 65 deaths .
tsunami warning . speaker 9 : cyber-attacks
different speakers : drug war . weapons of mass destruction . tornado .
recession . stagnation . doomsday . egypt . syria .
crisis . death . disaster .
oh my god .
so these are just a few of the clips that i &apos;ve collected over the last six months -- but it could have been the last six days , or the last six years .
in fact , the media preferences to show us negative themes , because our minds are paying attention to these very topics .
that &apos;s how people in the west really spent a long time thinking about creativity .
and there &apos;s also a very good reason for that .
every second of the day , our senses catch a lot more information than our brains can ever process .
and because we &apos;re not more important than our survival , the first stop for all the information is part of our temporal lobe , the amygdala .
so the amygdala is our early warning system , our driving detector .
it sorts and permeates all the information in search of any kind of danger in our environment .
so when we see the news , we prefer to look for negative news .
and the old adage , &quot; when it bleeds , the demand &quot; is very true .
now , with all of our digital devices , which seven days a week , 24 hours a day , is not a miracle that we &apos;re pessimistic .
it &apos;s not a miracle that everybody thinks the world is getting worse and worse .
but maybe that &apos;s not the case .
in a bloodshed continent , these people were the only people who were never conquered by the spaniards .
and then the renaissance came , and everything changed . we had this big idea . and this big idea was : let &apos;s put the human individual at the center of the universe -- about all the gods and mysteries . and there &apos;s no room for mystical creatures to accept the commands of divinity .
maybe that &apos;s the reality .
maybe the tremendous progress that we &apos;ve made in the last century through a series of forces is accelerating so much that we will be able to create a world of abundance in the next three decades .
well , i &apos;m not saying that we don &apos;t have big problems -- climate crisis , biodiversity loss , water and energy problems -- we already have them .
and as humans , we &apos;re much better at looking at problems in a very long way , but eventually overcoming them .
let &apos;s look at what we &apos;ve achieved in the last century , so we can anticipate the development .
in the last 100 years , the average life expectancy has more than doubled , the average income of the world &apos;s population has tripled .
child mortality has dropped by a tenth .
and also , the food , electric transportation and communication costs have declined by a multiplicity cost .
steve pinker has shown us that we live in a very peaceful time in human history right now .
and according to charles kenny , the literacy rate has gone from 25 percent to 80 percent in the last 130 years .
it &apos;s the beginning of rational humanism , and people began to believe that creativity came completely from their own individual .
we live in a really extraordinary time .
and a lot of people forget this .
and we &apos;re increasing our expectations all the time .
in fact , we &apos;ve redefined poverty .
remember that a lot of americans who live under the poverty line have access to electricity , water , toilets , refrigerators , tv , cell phones , air conditioners and cars .
the richest capitalists of the last century , the world &apos;s imperators , could never have dreamed of these luxury goods .
the basis of a lot of these forms of technologies , and they grow expotentially .
my good friend ray kurzweil has shown us that every tool that becomes an information technology will make big leaps on the curve of moore &apos;s law , and the price performance quotient will double every 12 to 24 months .
that &apos;s why the cell phone in your pocket costs about a million times less , and it &apos;s a thousand times faster than a supercomputer in the &apos; 70s .
now look at this curve .
for the first time in history , people call this genius or this artist a genius -- instead of having a genius .
this is moore &apos;s law over the last hundred years .
notice two things about this curve .
first , how smooth it goes -- in good times , war or peace , recession , depression and high contrast .
this is the result of faster computers building faster computers .
it slows down for none of our big problems .
and also , despite their logarithmic trajectory on the left , it &apos;s going upward .
so the growth rate itself is accelerating .
and on this curve , on the back of moore &apos;s law , we find a series of extraordinary technologies that are available to everybody .
&quot; cloud-computing , &quot; something my friends call autodesk &quot; infinite computing , &quot; sensors and networks , robots , 3d printers that allow us to democratize personal production on our planet , synthetic biology , fuels , vaccines and food , digital medicine , nano-materials and artificial intelligence .
how many of you have seen the victory of ibm &apos;s supercomputer watson at risk ?
i have to tell you , i think that was a big mistake .
that was great .
i went through the newspapers and looked for the best headlines i could find .
i love this one : &quot; watson enforced human enemies . &quot;
risk is not a simple game .
it &apos;s about understanding the nuances of language .
imagine that this artificial intelligence is available to every owner of a cell phone .
four years ago , ray kurzweil and i started a new university here at ted called singularity university .
we teach our students all these technologies , with special focus on how they can be used to solve the great challenges of humanity .
and every year , we ask students to create business , products and services that can positively affect the lives of billions of people in a decade .
think about how a group of students today can affect the lives of billions of people .
you know ? i think allowing a mere person to think that he or she is like the vessel , like the pelvis and the essence and the source of all divine , creative , unknown , infinite mystery is a little too much responsibility to burden them up to a fragile , human psyche .
30 years ago , this would have been ridiculous .
today , we can point to dozens of companies that have done this .
when i think about creating abundance , i don &apos;t mean a life of luxury for everyone on the planet ; it &apos;s about creating a life of opportunity .
it &apos;s about creating abundance from scarce goods .
because scarcity is contextual , and technology is a resource of liberating power .
here &apos;s an example .
this is the story of napoleon iiii in the middle of the 18th century .
he &apos;s the guy on the left .
he invited the king of siam to dinner .
napoleon &apos;s soldiers got silver besteck , napoleon himself got gold brick .
it &apos;s like asking someone to swallow the sun .
but the king of siam got aluminum brick .
aluminum was at that time the most valuable metal on the planet , more valuable than gold and plate .
this is the reason why the dome of the washington monument was made from aluminum .
even though aluminum takes 8.3 percent of the earth &apos;s mass , it doesn &apos;t occur as pure metal .
it &apos;s connected by oxygen and silicon .
but then the technology of electrolysis was developed and made aluminum so cheap that we use it with our throwaway mentality .
then let &apos;s project this analogy into the future .
we think of energy scarcity today .
ladies and gentlemen , we live on a planet that &apos;s 5,000-times more energy than we use every year .
16 terawatts of energy , every 88 minutes , prashes to the surface of the earth .
that unfolds and distorts whole egos , and it creates all these unreachable expectations of success .
it &apos;s not scarcity , the problem is accessibility .
and there &apos;s good news .
this year , for the first time , they managed to reduce the cost of solar power in india to 50 percent of the same electricity -- 8.8 rupees compared to 17 rupees .
the cost of solar energy dropped by 50 percent last year .
last month , this has been published with a study that shows that , by the end of this decade , solar energy in the sunny areas of the united states will cost six cents a kwh , compared to 15 cents a national average .
and if we have an energy overload , we will also have water in abundance .
let &apos;s talk about water wars .
remember , when carl sagan turned the voyager-space vehicle in 1990 , when it passed saturn , back towards earth ?
he took a famous photograph . what was it like ?
&quot; a pale blue dot . &quot;
i think this success pressure has devastated our artists over the last 500 years .
because we live on a water planet .
we live on a planet that &apos;s 70 percent covered in water .
yes , it &apos;s 97.5 percent saltwater , two percent is removed , and we &apos;re fighting by 0.5 percent of the water on the planet , but there &apos;s hope .
and there are new technologies , not in 10 or 20 years , but now .
they &apos;re new nanotechnology on the way , nano-materials .
and from a conversation this morning with dean kaman , one of the innovators of the do it yourself , i want to share with you -- he gave me permission -- his technology , which is called &quot; slingshot , &quot; and many of you may have heard of . it &apos;s the size of a refrigerator in the student &apos;s home .
it can produce a thousand liters of clean drinking water a day from different sources -- whether saltwater , polluted water , latrine -- and all that for less than two cents a gallon .
the head of coca-cola has just agreed to start a big test project with a hundred units in developing countries .
and if everything &apos;s going well , and i &apos;m very confident , coca-cola is going to apply this technology globally in 206 countries around the planet .
this is technology supported innovation that we have today .
and , if that &apos;s true -- and i think it &apos;s true -- the question is .
and we &apos;ve also seen this in cell phones .
oh my goodness , we &apos;re going to reach the 70 percent deforestation rate from mobile phones in the developing world to the end of 2013 .
just think that a masai warrior with a cell phone in the middle of kenya has a better mobile communication than president reagan did 25 years ago .
and if you look at google with your smartphone , you have more access to knowledge and information than president clinton did 15 years ago .
they live in a world that has abundance information and communication , as no one could have predicted .
and it &apos;s even better , the things that you and i spent on several thousand dollars -- gps , hd video and photograph , libraries of books and music , technology for medical diagnostics -- are now literally being dematerialized and cheaper in your cell phone .
and the best part is perhaps what &apos;s expected to be health .
in the last month , i had the pleasure of announcing the so-called &quot; $ 10 million qualcomm tricorder x prize . &quot;
we challenge teams around the world to connect all these technologies together in a cell phone so that you can talk to the device , because it &apos;s equipped with ai , you can test pure or your blood values .
and to win , the device has to diagnose better than a team of highly qualified doctors .
can we change it ?
imagine this device . in the middle of a developing country where there are no doctors , but 25 percent of the disease burden and 1.3 percent of the health care staff .
if this device sequences a rna- or dna virus that &apos;s not known , it calls the health administration and prevents a pandemic from its outbreak .
but now the biggest force that will lead us to a world of abundance .
i call them &quot; the coming billion . &quot;
the white lines are population .
we &apos;ve just crossed the 7-billion-dollar brand .
and just by the way , the biggest insurance against a population explosion is a better education and nutrition around the world .
in 2010 , we had just under two billion people connected online .
by 2020 , we &apos;re predictably going from two billion to five billion internet users .
three billion new minds that we &apos;ve never heard of before will connect to global communication .
to this day , they &apos;re governed by a ritual priesthood , but the education to the priesthood is very extraordinary .
maybe to an ancient understanding of the relationship between people and the mystery of the creative .
what do these people need ?
what are you going to consume ? what are you going to want ?
and instead of the economic gridlock , i see one of the greatest economic benefits in history .
these people represent several trillion dollars that will flow into the global economy .
and they &apos;re going to be healthier by using the tricoder , and they &apos;re going to be better trained by the khan academy , and by having the opportunity to use 3d printers and infinite computing and so much more productive than ever before .
so what can three billion growing , healthy , educated , productive members of the human community bring us ?
how about a sentence of new , never heard before .
how about suppressing the oppressed , wherever you are , giving a voice to pay attention and creating change for the first time ?
what are these three billion people going to bring with us ?
how about contributions that we can &apos;t even predict ?
maybe not .
one of the things that i learned from the x prize is that small teams that are motivated by passion and focus can create extraordinary things , things that big companies and governments could only create in the past .
i want to end with a story that really excited me .
there &apos;s a program that some of you may know .
it &apos;s a game called foldit .
it was developed at the university of washington in seattle .
and it &apos;s a game where people can take a sequence of amino acids to study how the protein will evolve .
and depending on its behavior , we can predict the structure and function .
and this is very important in medical research .
so far , this was a problem for supercomputers .
and this game was played by university professors and so on .
maybe we can &apos;t just eradicate the thought from 500 years of rational humanism in an 18-minute talk .
and there are now hundreds of thousands of people who have played the game online .
and it showed that today the human pattern recognition is better folding proteins than the best supercomputers .
and when these people came and saw who was the best protein folder in the world , this was not a mit professor , it wasn &apos;t a caltech student , it was somebody from england , manchester , a woman who worked as a assistant to the ceo in a rehab clinic at night and was the best protein orderer in the world .
ladies and gentlemen , what gives me enormous trust in our future , is the fact that we have more power today than individuals to face the great challenges of our planet .
we have access to tools with exponential technology .
we have the passion of a diy innovator .
we have the capital of techno-philanthropy .
and we have three billion new heads that we can work with online to master the new challenges , and to do what &apos;s needed .
we expect a few extraordinary decades .
thank you .
and there are certainly people in this audience who would report really legitimate scientific doubt about the notion of -- basically -- fees that people follow and apply fatty magic to their projects and so on .
i think we need to do something about a transformative piece of medical culture .
and i think it starts with a medical doctor , and it &apos;s me .
and maybe i &apos;ve been in business for a long time , so i can allow myself to give up a piece of my own wrong prestige to allow this to happen .
but before i get to the actual theme of my talk , let &apos;s start with a little baseball .
hey , why not ?
we &apos;re close to the season end , and we &apos;re moving towards the world cup .
we all love baseball , right ?
baseball is full of great statistics .
and there are hundreds of them .
&quot; moneyball &quot; appears soon , and it turns to statistics and to use it as a great baseball team .
i &apos;m probably not going to be able to take all of you on this journey .
i &apos;m going to refer to a statistic that i hope most of you have heard before .
it &apos;s the average performance of the bat .
we &apos;re talking about a 300 when a bat hits 300 .
that means that the player will probably beat three out of 10 strokes .
that &apos;s the ball in the field , it &apos;s coming up , it &apos;s not caught , and who tried to throw the ball to the first base , didn &apos;t do it in time , and the runner was safe .
three out of 10 .
do you know what it &apos;s called a 300th in major league baseball ?
well , really good , maybe a single star .
you know what they call a 400th ?
this is somebody who , by the way , is surely hitting four out of 10 .
but the question i want to throw up is , why not ?
legendary -- as ted williams legendary -- the last major league baseball player who met over 400 times during a regular season .
let &apos;s transfer back to my medical world , where i feel a lot more comfortable , or maybe a little less comfortable when i talked to you about it .
suppose you have a blind representation , and you &apos;re transferred to an operator , whose average performance is 400 in terms of blindness .
somehow it doesn &apos;t work , right ?
suppose you &apos;re living in a particular remote area , and you have a beloved person with clogged heart vessels , and your home doctor refers to a cardiologist whose average performance in vascular imaging is 200 .
but you know what ?
she &apos;s much better this year . she &apos;s on the rising branch .
and she &apos;s beating a 257 .
somehow it doesn &apos;t work .
but i &apos;m going to ask you a question .
why not think about it that way ?
what do you think the average performance for a cardiologist or a nurse or an orthopedic , a birthday worker , should be a rescue assistant ?
1,000 , very good .
the truth is that no one in all medicine knows what a good surgeon or a doctor or a rescue assistant should be .
what we do , however , is that we each and every one of them , including me , send out into the world with the claim to be perfect .
no one ever makes a mistake , but no one makes a mistake about the details of how to do this .
and this is the message i took in medical school .
i was a compulsive student .
in high school , a student once said that brian goldmann would learn for a blood test .
and so was it .
and i learned in my little dirt in the nurse residence at toronto general hospital , not far from here .
because it makes as much sense as anything else i &apos;ve heard about when it came to explaining the absolutely insane ingenuity of the creative process .
i memorized everything .
in my anatomic lecture , i learned the origins and profiles of every muscle , every branch of every artery that goes away from the aorta , obscure and ordinary differential diagnosis .
i even knew the differential diagnosis to classify renal tubula azidose .
and all the time , i was collecting more and more knowledge .
and i was good , i finished cum laude .
and i left medical school with the impression that if i knew everything and knew everything , or as much as possible , as close as possible that i was immune to making errors .
and it worked for a while , until i met a woman printer .
i was resistant to a teaching hospital here in toronto as a woman printer to me in the emergency room .
at that point , i was proven to be the cardiology layer in the cardiology service .
and it was my mission when the emergency staff was looking for cardiology council to study the emergency room .
a process that -- like anyone who has ever tried to do anything -- so in other words , everyone here -- doesn &apos;t always act reasonably .
and to send back to my top doctor .
i studied woman printer , and she was in breathing .
and when i listened to her , she made cookie sounds .
and when i listened to her chest with the stethoscope , i could hear a crushing sound on both sides , which told me that she suffered from a congestive heart failure .
this is a state where the heart is failing , instead of pumping all the blood on , a part of the blood in the lung is stuck and fills that one in the lung , so the short-term came .
and that wasn &apos;t a hard way to do diagnosis .
i hired them and took me to the treatment .
i gave her aspirin . i gave her medicine to take the pressure of the heart .
i gave her medicine that we call diuretics , water tablets , so that she &apos;ll let the liquid go .
and over a period of time from one and a half to two hours , she began to feel better .
in fact , he can sometimes feel like paranormal .
i felt really good .
and i made my first mistake ; i sent them home .
in fact , i made two mistakes .
i sent them home without talking to my head doctor .
i didn &apos;t take the audience up and do what i was supposed to do , which would have been a call on my top doctor to clarify it , so that he would have had a chance to make his own image .
and he knew her , he would have been able to contribute additional information to her .
maybe i did it with good reason .
maybe i didn &apos;t want to be the aid doctor .
maybe i wanted to be so successful and so capable of taking responsibility that i was so acting and so i would be able to take care of my patients without having to contact them .
my second mistake was worse .
the young acolyths are separated from their families at the age of three and four , and in a shadowy world of the eclipse , in stone huts at the base of the glacier for 18 years . two times of each nine years , deliberately elected to mimic the nine months of pregnancy that they spent in the lap of their primary mother , they now spend metamorphorically in the lap of the great mother .
i had such an encounter recently when i met the extraordinary american poet , ruth stone , who is now over 90 , but was a poet all of her life . she told me that when she grew up in the village virginia , she was working out on the fields . she said she could feel and hear how a poem came across the landscape .
and so i sent them home , and i missed a quiet voice in me , trying to tell me , &quot; goldman , not a good idea . don &apos;t do that . &quot;
in fact , i was so absent from self-confidence that i asked the nurse , which one cared about women &apos;s printer , &quot; do you think it &apos;s okay when she goes home ? &quot;
and the nurse thought about it , and she said , in fact , &quot; yeah , i think she &apos;s going to be fine . &quot;
i remember it as if it was yesterday .
so i signed the deforestation papers and a ambulance and rescue assistants came home and brought them home .
and i went back to work .
the rest of the day , the evening , i had this nagging feeling in my stomach .
but i kept working .
and at the end of the day , i grabbed my stuff , i left the hospital , and i went to the parking lot to go home with the car when i did something that i didn &apos;t do otherwise .
i went through the emergency department on my way home .
she said it was like a thundering train of air .
and there , another nurse said , not the sister who had seen after woman printer , but another three words to me , and those three words fear most of the emergency doctors i know .
other medical professionals are afraid of this as well , but the emergency room medicine is particularly special , because we see the patients just so volatile .
the three words were , remember ?
&quot; do you remember the patient you sent home ? &quot;
and the nurse was really asking .
&quot; so she &apos;s back , &quot; she said in this particular clay .
so she was back .
she was back and dying .
about an hour after she got home , after i sent her home , she collapsed , and the family called 911 . the rescue assistants brought her back to the emergency room with a 50 blood pressure , which is a dangerous shock .
she was barely breathing , and she was walking blue .
it would roll over the country to them .
the emergency staff moved all the strands .
they gave their blood pressure increases .
they put them on the respiratory machine .
i was shocked , and i was crushed into the inner .
and i lived through this rollercoaster because she came to the intensive care unit after the stabilization , and i hoped that she would recover .
and after two , three days , it became clear that she would never wake up again .
she had suffered a non-treatable brain damage .
her family gathered together .
and over the course of the next eight or nine days , they gave up to the shot .
the other day , they made her go -- woman printer , woman , mother and grandmother .
she felt when it came , because it would bring the earth under her feet to the quake .
they say that you never forget the names of those who die .
and that was the first time i learned this myself .
the next couple of weeks , i made a suggestion to myself , and i first learned the unhealthy shame that exists in our medical culture -- i felt alone , isolated , not the kind of healthy shame that you feel , because you can &apos;t talk to the colleagues about it .
you all know the healthy shame , if you give a secret to the best friend &apos;s prize , even though that person swells you to the extent and then you get caught and the best friend confronts you with it , and my horrible discussion is when you end up with the bad conscience , and you swore that you never make such a mistake again .
if you do remorse and never make the mistake again .
that &apos;s the kind of educational shame .
the unhealthy way i &apos;m talking about is the one that makes you intrinsically ill .
it &apos;s the one who tells you that not what you &apos;ve done is bad , but you &apos;re bad .
and that &apos;s what i felt .
and it wasn &apos;t because of my top doctor , he was very dear .
she knew that at such a moment , she could only do one , and that was -- in her words -- running like the devil .
he was talking to the family , and i &apos;m sure he was smoking the woods and making sure that i wasn &apos;t sued .
but i kept asking myself these questions .
why didn &apos;t i ask the top doctor ? why did i send them home ?
and then in my worst moments , how could i make such a stupid mistake ?
why did i go to medicine ?
slowly but surely it did .
i started to feel better .
and then on a windy day , there was a hole in the clouds , and the sun broke out , and i said , maybe i can feel better again .
and i negotiated with myself that if i doubled my efforts for perfection and never again made a mistake that the voice could stumble .
and she did .
she ran like the devil to the house while she was tracked by this poem , and it was just that she had to get quickly enough to a piece of paper and a pencil , so she could catch it through her , and hold it on the sheet .
and i kept working .
and then it happened again .
two years later , i had service in the emergency room in a municipal hospital north of toronto , and i looked at a 25-year-old man with a full rage .
it was a lot of stuff going on , and i was in a hurry .
he always showed up here .
i looked in the rage , and it was a little bit pink .
and i gave him a prescription for penicillin and sent him away .
and even when he went out of the door , he pointed at his rage .
two days later , i came to my next emergency room , and my boyfriend asked me to talk to her office .
and she said the three words : do you remember ?
in other paintings , she wasn &apos;t fast enough . she ran and ran and ran , but she didn &apos;t reach the house , and the poem rolled through her , and she missed it , and she said it would move on over land , and , as she said , she was looking for another poet .
&quot; do you remember the patient with the mature rage ? &quot;
it turns out that he &apos;s infected a streptococtococus .
he had a potentially life-threatening disease called epiglottitis .
you can google that , but it &apos;s not an infection of the rake , but the upper respiratory path , and it causes the breathing .
and luckily , he didn &apos;t die .
he got intrasive antibotica and recovered a few days later .
and i went back through the same torture of shame and self-doubt , felt liberated and went to work until it happened again and again and again .
in an emergency layer , i &apos;ve overlooked a blindfold twice .
there &apos;s a lot of things going on here , especially if you think you &apos;re working in a hospital at that time that had only 14 patients per night .
in both cases , i didn &apos;t send them home , and there was probably no shortage in their treatment .
and then there were these moments -- i &apos;ll never forget the part -- she said that there were moments when she nearly missed it .
one of them i thought he had kidney stones .
i ordered the x-ray of the kidneys , and when it was not found , my colleague , in the review of the patient , found a hardening in the lower right sector and called the operators .
the other one had strong diarrhea .
i ordered fluids to rehydrate it , and i asked my colleagues to review it as well .
and he did , and when he found a hardening in the lower right sector , he called the operators .
in both cases , surgery was surgery , and they were fine .
both cases came to me , and they asked me .
and i would be happy to tell you that my worst mistake has happened in the first five years , which many of my colleagues say is total nonsense .
some of my claws have happened in the last five years .
alone , damaged and not supported .
so , she runs to the house , and she looks for the paper , and the poem goes through it , and she grabs a pen just as it goes through it , and then she said -- she said -- it was like taking her other hand and getting it packed .
here &apos;s the problem : if i can &apos;t finish with my mistakes and talk about them , if i can make the quiet voice that tells me what really can &apos;t happen , how can i share it with my colleagues ?
how can i teach you my mistakes so they don &apos;t make the same mistake ?
if i put in a room -- like right now , i have no idea what you &apos;re thinking about me .
when was the last time you heard about someone who was talking about failing failure ?
oh yeah , you go to a cocktail party , and you might hear about some other doctor , but you &apos;re not going to hear somebody talk about your own mistakes .
if i were to go into a room full of colleagues and ask them for their immediate support and start telling them what i just told you , i would probably not get to the end of the second story before it really would be unpleasant , anybody would have a joke , they would change the subject and forget the rest .
and in fact , if i knew , or my colleagues , that an orthopedic in my hospital had taken off the wrong leg , believe me that i had trouble looking in his eyes .
this is the system that we live in .
it &apos;s a completely denial of errors .
it &apos;s a system where there are two basic positions -- the ones that make mistakes and the ones that don &apos;t make any of them -- the ones that confine the deprivation and the ones that don &apos;t have any limitations , which have bad results and the results that have good results .
she got the poem on his tail , and she pulled it back into her body , and she took it over to the sheet of paper .
it &apos;s almost an ideological response like antibodies that attack a human being .
and there &apos;s an idea that if we put the people who make mistakes out of medicine , that we have a safe system .
but there are two problems with this .
in my about 20 years of the medical sensation and journalism , i created a personal medical study on medical errors and false treatments to learn everything i could for a first article i wrote for the toronto star , &quot; white coat , black art . &quot;
and what i learned is that mistakes are absolutely incomplete .
we work in a system where errors happen every day , where a 10 medications is either false or wrong , where hospital infections become more and more and more frequent and cause devastation or dead .
in this state , about 24,000 canadians die of external errors .
in the united states , the institute of medicine decides the number of 100,000 .
both of these are strong understatements , because we don &apos;t look at the problem as closely as we should .
and it &apos;s the crux .
and throughout that time , they are culturally introduced into the values of their society . values that sustain the claim that their prayers and only their prayers , the cosmic -- or we could say the ecological -- are balance .
in these opportunities , the poem came in free and intact on paper -- but backwards -- from the last word to the first .
in a hospital system where medical knowledge doubles every two to three years , we can &apos;t keep up .
sleep deprivation is ubiquitous .
we can &apos;t get rid of it .
we have a cognitive error so that we can take a perfect pathology for a patient with a breast pain .
and then i take the same patient with a chest pain , and i sweat it and i do a little bit of an alcoholized breath , and all of a sudden the story is saturated with contempt .
i &apos;m not taking the same process .
i &apos;m not a robot ; i don &apos;t always do things the same .
and my patients are not cars ; they don &apos;t always tell me their symptoms in the same way .
all of this , in summary , is inevitable errors .
so if you take the system the way i was taught , and you put out all the faulty health professionals , there &apos;s no one at all .
when i heard that , i thought that &apos;s kind of creepy -- that &apos;s exactly how my creative process is going on .
and you know the bodies about people who don &apos;t want to talk about their worst cases ?
in my show , &quot; white coat , black art , &quot; i have the habit of saying , &quot; this is my worst mistake , &quot; i would show everyone from the rescue assistant to the boss of the cardiologist saying , &quot; this is my worst mistake &quot; blah , blah , blah , blah , blah , what about yours ? &quot; and then i &apos;ll show the microphone to him .
and then their pupils expand , they came up in front of their head , then they look down and they swallow , and they start telling their stories .
they want to tell their stories . they want to share their stories .
they want to be able to say , &quot; look , don &apos;t make the same mistakes i made . &quot;
what you need is an environment that you put in the position of .
what you need is a new medical culture .
and it starts with a doctor .
the redefined doctor is a human being , white in his humanity , accepting it , is not proud to make mistakes , but it sets everything out of them so that it can be passed on .
she shares her experience with others .
it &apos;s not like my creative process at all -- i &apos;m not the channel !
it supports when others talk about their mistakes .
and she shows other people their mistakes , not to mess , but in a loving , supportive way , so that all of them benefit .
and she &apos;s working in a medical culture that recognizes that people fill the system with life , and if that &apos;s true , people make mistakes from time to time .
so that the system develops to create backups that make it easier to find errors , to make people inevitable , and also to create loving , supportive spaces in which anyone who observes health care can actually address things that are potential errors and even rewarded for it , and specifically for people like me who should make mistakes and be rewarded for the gratification of those rewards .
my name is brian goldman .
i &apos;m the redefined doctor .
i &apos;m a human . i make mistakes .
i regret there , but i &apos;m trying to learn best from it to pass it on .
i don &apos;t know what you think i &apos;m doing , but i can live with that .
let me close with three of my own words : i remember .
i &apos;m a masonry . in order to work , i have to get up and sweat every day at the same time , get tired and get really uncomfortable .
i &apos;m going to talk about a tiny , little idea .
it &apos;s about modifiable standards .
and because you can explain this idea in a minute , i &apos;m going to tell you three stories before , to use time .
the first story is about charles darwin , one of my heroes .
you know , he was here in 1835 .
you might think he was chasing finches , but that &apos;s not true .
it actually collected fish .
he described one of them as very common .
it was a grouper .
until the &apos; 80s , it was fished in great style .
but even me in my masonry species , sometimes i &apos;ve ripped this thing up .
now it &apos;s on the red list of endangered species .
we &apos;ve heard this story many times from the galapagos , or other places , it &apos;s not very special .
and yet we still get to the galapagos .
we still think they &apos;re originally .
the brochures still describe them as pristine .
what happened here ?
the second story is to illustrate another concept , the shiftable range of pollen .
because i experienced it when i studied a lagoon in west africa in 1971 .
i went there because i grew up in europe , and i wanted to work later in africa .
i thought i could integrate .
and i guess many of you have done that too .
and i got a bad sunburn , and i was convinced that i didn &apos;t really come from there .
it was my first sunburn .
as you can see , the lagoon of palms and a few mangroves were surrounded .
there were buntbarks of about 20 inches , black carriage brothers , a subset of bunk barber .
the fishermen were very productive , and the fishermen were living well on average in ghana .
when i returned there 27 years later , the fish had shrunk to half its size .
adult , they measured five inches .
they had been genetically pressed .
it was still fish .
people were still happy .
even i had work or ideas that came through from a source of mine that i really can &apos;t identify .
and the fish was also fortunate to be there .
so nothing has changed , and yet everything has changed .
my third little story is about my participation in the introduction of the trawling net fishery in southeast asia .
in the &apos; 70s , rather at the beginning of the &apos; 60s , europe was promoting a lot of development projects .
fisheries meant countries that were already starting 100,000 fish , the industrial fishing of this pretty ugly ship called mutiara 4 .
and i went to this , and we were doing census all over the southern south china sea , and especially in the javasee .
we didn &apos;t have words for what we started there .
i know now that it was the reason of the ocean .
90 percent of our beginnings were sponges , other animals that are connected to the bottom .
most of the fish , the little dots there on the rubber , the trushing pile , were coral reef fish .
what is this thing ?
basically , the bottom of the ocean came to deck and then was thrown back .
these images are extraordinary , because the transition is going very fast .
within a year , you run an arousal , and then you start with the commercial fishing .
the reason is changed . for -- in this case , a hard reason or soft coral is match-crap .
this is a dead turtle .
they were not eaten ; they were thrown away because they were dead .
once we started a vivid one .
she wasn &apos;t drowned yet .
then they wanted to kill them , because you could eat them well .
in fact , this mountain of trusses is collected by fishermen every time they go to areas that have never been fished .
and how do we relate to this without losing our minds , but even keeping ourselves in the opposite of mental health ?
it &apos;s not documented .
we change the world , but we don &apos;t remember it .
we adapt our standards to the new level , and we don &apos;t remember what was there .
if you generalize it , this is what happens .
on the y-axis , there are some good things : biodiversity , number of orca , the green of your country , the water supply .
over time , it changes . it changes , because for people , their actions are very natural .
every generation looks at the images that they take at the beginning of their conscious life , as standard , and will derive everything from it .
the difference is then perceived as a loss .
but they don &apos;t notice the previous losses .
there can be a sequence of change .
for me , the best living example of how to do this is the musician tom waits . i was allowed to interview him for a magazine a few years ago .
and in the end , they just want to get the inheritable remains .
that &apos;s our goal , by and large , now .
we want to get things that have disappeared , or things that are no longer as they were .
now you might think that the problem would be looking at people who certainly , when they lived in predatory societies , killed animals , and who only realized after a few generations what they had done .
because obviously , an animal that was very common is rarely before it dies out .
so you don &apos;t lose very often occurring animals .
you &apos;re always losing rare animals .
and that &apos;s why it &apos;s not perceived as a great loss .
over time , we focus on the big animals , and in the ocean , these are the big fish .
they get less rare because we catch them .
at the end of this amazing initiation , you &apos;re taken out one day suddenly , and for the first time in your life , at the age of 18 , you see a sunrise . and in this crystal moment of consciousness of the first light , when the sun starts to radiate on the hangs of the amazing landscape , suddenly everything you &apos;ve learned in abstract will be confirmed in amazing glory . and the priest comes back and says , &quot; you see ? it really is , as i told you .
we talked about this topic . and you know what ? most of his life , tom was the embodiment of the embarrassed modern artist who tried to dominate these uncontrollable creative impulses that lived in him , and to deal with them .
over time , there &apos;s little fish left , and we think that &apos;s the standard value .
the question is , why do people accept that ?
well , because you don &apos;t know it was different .
of course , many people , scientists , will confirm that it was really different .
you &apos;re going to confirm it , because the evidence of how you &apos;re in an earlier form is not as you would like to demonstrate the evidence .
there is , for example , the anecdote that the report of a captain soundso that observed large fish benefits in this area can &apos;t be used , or fisheries scientists don &apos;t usually be used because it &apos;s not &quot; scientific . &quot;
so we have the situation that people don &apos;t know the past , even though we live in educated societies , because they don &apos;t trust the sources of the past .
this shows the enormously big role that a marine reserve can play .
because through marine reserves , we &apos;re basically restoring the past .
we restore the past that people can &apos;t understand , because the standard values have changed and are very low .
but then he got older and quieter , and he told me that one day he was driving on a highway in los angeles , and it all changed for him .
so the people who see a marine reserve can benefit from the insight that enables them to restore their standard values .
what about the people who can &apos;t do that , because they don &apos;t have access -- the people in the midwest , for example ?
here , i think , the art and the film may fill the gap , and simulations .
this is the simulation of chesapeake bay .
a long time ago , there were gray whales -- 500 years ago .
and the color notes and the shades , you may remember &quot; avatar . &quot;
if you think about &quot; avatar , &quot; if you think about why people were so touched by it -- besides the pocahoney story , why were you so touched by the image world ?
because it &apos;s waking up something that &apos;s been lost in some way .
so my recommendation , the only one i &apos;m going to give , is to cameron to turn &quot; avatar ii &quot; under water .
thank you .
he was driving at high speed when he suddenly hears a little fragment of a melody , which , as it is often inspiring , is difficult to grasp for him , and he wants to have them . it &apos;s gorgeous . he &apos;s letting it , but he can &apos;t grab them .
in the 1980s , in the communist east germany , if you had a typewriter , you had to register it in the government .
they also had to register a leaf with an example of this typewriter .
the reason for that , the government could go back and track where a text came from .
they found an article with false thought , and they could detect the creator of this thought .
and we in the west couldn &apos;t understand how anybody could do something like this , and how much that would constrain freedom of speech .
in our own countries , we would never do that .
but if you buy a new color laser printer today in 2011 from the leading laser printing factories and print a page , this page of bright yellow spots has printed on every page , in a pattern that clearly leaves the page to you and your printer .
this is what happens to us today .
and nobody seems to get upset about that .
and this was an example of how our own governments are using technology against us , citizens .
he doesn &apos;t have a piece of paper ; he doesn &apos;t have a pen ; he doesn &apos;t have a tape recorder .
and this is one of the three main sources of the existing online problems today .
let &apos;s look at what really happens in the world : we can split the attacks into categories .
we have three main groups .
there are online criminals .
for example , here , this is mr. dimitry golubow from kiev in ukraine .
and the motives of online criminals are very easy to understand .
these people make money .
they use online attacks to make a lot of money , a huge amount of money .
there are several known cases of online millionaire , multimillionaire , who have made their money through attacks .
this is wladimir tsastsin from tartu in estonia .
so he starts to climb this old climb in him , like i &apos;m going to lose this thing and will be tracked from this song to eternal .
this is alfred gonzalez .
stephen watts .
bjordn sundin .
this is matthew anderson , tariq al-daour and so on and so forth .
these people have come online too rich , but they &apos;ve acquired it illegally by , for example , using trojans to steal money from our bank accounts while we &apos;re doing our online banking , or keyloggers , who have collected our credit card information on the keyboard while we &apos;re buying an infected computer online .
the u.s. intelligence agency was happy two months ago , the swiss account of mr. sam jain here , and in this account , 14.9 million u.s. dollars was frozen .
mr. jain himself is on the open foot , the location is unknown .
and i &apos;m saying that it &apos;s more likely today to be victims of an online crime than a crime in the real world .
and it &apos;s very obvious that this will only get worse .
in the future , most crimes will play online .
i &apos;m not good enough , i &apos;m not able to do it .
the second largest attacker group we see today is not motivated by money .
they &apos;re motivated by something else -- protests , for example , an opinion , or through your audience .
groups like anonymous have gone up over the last 12 months and become one of the main players in the field of online attacks .
so these are the three main groups : criminals who do it for money , hackactivists like anonymous , who are resistant to it , but the last group are nations , governments , who run the attacks .
we have cases like diginotar &apos;s .
it shows you an example of what happens when governments attack their own citizens .
diginotar is a complete netherlands certificate -- or it was .
last fall , it had to register insolvine , because diginotar had been hacked .
somebody had broken in and hacked the system thoroughly .
and last week , in a meeting with dutch government officials , i asked one of the senior members of this group the question of whether he was hiding it for possible that people had died because of the diginotar hack .
but instead of getting panic , he just stopped .
and his answer was &quot; yes . &quot;
now , how do people die as a result of a hack like this ?
diginotar is a certification site .
they sell certificates .
what do you do with certificates ?
well , a certificate requires , if you have a website with https , with ssl encrypted services , for example , gmail .
now we all use , or many of us , gmail , or one of their competitors , but these services are particularly common in totalitarian states like iran , where dissidents use foreign providers like gmail , because they know that they can trust them more than local providers and that they &apos;re encrypted by ssl connections , so that the local government can &apos;t sniff around in their conversation .
but you can , if you &apos;re in a foreign .
certification agency is putting hacks and fake certificates .
and that &apos;s exactly what happened in the case of diginotar .
he ended the whole thought and did something completely new .
how about the arab spring and the things that happened in egypt , for example ?
well , in egypt , the insurgency in april 2011 looted the headquarters of egyptian intelligence police , and they found a lot of records .
there was a folder in these records called &quot; finfisher . &quot;
and in this folder , notes were a local company that the egyptian government had sold a few programs that they could -- in very large scales -- capture any communication of the egyptian citizens .
they had sold this program for 280,000 euros to the egyptian government .
the corporate headquarters are right here .
so western governments provide totalitarian governments with tools so that they can run against their own citizens .
but western governments also help themselves .
for example , in germany , only a few weeks ago , the so-called state strojans found , which was a trojan that was used by german government representatives to try to find their own citizens .
if you &apos;re suspected in a criminal case , you &apos;re pretty sure that your phone will be tapped .
he just looked in the sky , and he said , &quot; sorry , can &apos;t you see i &apos;m driving ? &quot;
but today we are far beyond that .
they tap into their internet connection .
they use tools like the state strajan to play their computer with a trojan that allows them to monitor their entire communication , listen to their online discussions , collect their passwords .
so if we keep thinking about things like this , people &apos;s obvious answer would be , &quot; ok , that sounds bad , but it &apos;s not my point , because i &apos;m a good citizen .
i don &apos;t have to worry .
i have nothing to hide . &quot;
and that argument doesn &apos;t make any sense .
privacy must be given .
privacy is not the debate .
it &apos;s not a decision between privacy and security .
do i look like i could just write up a song ?
it &apos;s a decision between freedom and control .
and while today , in 2011 , we may trust our governments , every right that we give up is forever abandoned .
and do we trust , do we blind to any future government , a government that we might have in 50 years ?
these are the questions that we have to deal with for the next 50 years .
it may seem strange to you , but i &apos;m a big fan of concrete blocks .
the first concrete blocks were made in 1868 , and they came up with a simple idea : module from cement with fixed measurements that fit together .
concrete tiles became the world &apos;s most used building unit very quickly .
they put us in the position of building things bigger than us , buildings , bridges , one after the other .
basically , the concrete building block had become the building block of our time .
almost a hundred years later , in 1947 , lego came out with this .
it &apos;s so wonderful . you have to protect it . &quot;
if you really want to exist , come back to a cheaper moment , if i can take care of you .
it was called the &quot; automatically connected stone . &quot;
and within a few years , lego moved into every household .
it &apos;s estimated that over 400 billion stones were produced -- or 75 stones for every person on the planet .
you don &apos;t have to be an engineer to create beautiful houses , beautiful bridges or beautiful buildings .
lego made it possible for everyone .
lego basically took the concrete building block , the world &apos;s building block , and made it a building block for our imagination .
in the meantime , in the same year at bell labs , the next revolution was announced , the next building block .
the transistor was a small plastic unit that would take us from a world of static , stacked tiles to a world where everything was interactive .
like the concrete block , the transistor allows us to build much larger , more complex cycles , one stone at a time .
but there &apos;s a major difference : the transistor was just for experts .
if not , somebody else today .
personally , i don &apos;t accept that the building block of our time is reserved for experts , and so i decided to change that .
eight years ago , i was at the media lab , and i started to explore this idea of how to put the power of engineers in the hands of artists and designers .
a few years ago , i started developing littlebits .
let me show you how they work .
littlebits are electronic modules that have a specific function .
they &apos;re preferred to be light , tone , engine and sensor .
and the best part is that they connect with magnets .
so you can &apos;t put them wrong .
the stones are colored .
green is output , blue is electricity , pink is input , and orange is cable .
go and squawk leonard cohen .
so all you have to do is connect a blue and a green one , and you can build bigger circles very quickly .
you add a blue one to a green one , and you can make light .
you can put a switch in between , and so you made a little dimmer .
take the switch out to put a pulsmodule , which is here , and you made a little blinker .
add this buzzer to an extra effect , and they made a noise machine .
i &apos;m going to stop that .
beyond simple play , littlebits is actually quite powerful .
instead of having to program , wired or dissolved , littlebits allows them to code with simple , intuitive gestures .
so to accelerate or slow the blink , you just turn this button , and it makes the pulse faster or slower .
the idea behind littlebits is that it &apos;s a growing library .
his whole process has changed after that .
we want to put every single interaction in the world into a used rock .
lights , notes , solar elements , motors -- everything should be available .
we &apos;ve distributed littlebits to kids and we &apos;ve seen them play with it .
and it was an incredible experience .
the most beautiful thing is , how do you start to understand the electronics that you &apos;re surrounding in your everyday life and that you don &apos;t learn in school ?
for example , how a night light works , or why the doors of the elevator remain open , or how an ipod reacts to touch .
we also brought littlebits to design schools .
so for example , we had designers with no experience in electronic things that started playing with littlebits as a material .
here we see , with filming , paper and water bottles , like geordie ...
a few weeks ago , we took littlebits to risd , and we gave them some designers who had no technical experience -- just carton , wood and paper -- and told them , &quot; do something . &quot;
not the work itself . it was still as dark as ever .
here &apos;s an example of a project they did , a moving confetti-cannon .
but wait , this is really my favorite project .
it &apos;s a bumblebee of play-doh that &apos;s scared in the dark .
for these non-engineers , littlebits became another material , electronics just became another material .
and we want to make this material available for everyone .
so littlebits open source is littlebits .
you can go to the website , download all the design facilities and make them yourself .
we want to encourage the world of the creators , the inventors , the contributors , because this world that we live in , this interactive world , belongs to us .
so go ahead and start inventing them .
thank you .
but the process and the heavy climbing that surrounds him was lifted up when he took the genius out , where he did nothing but trouble and left him where he came from , in a way , and realized that there was no internalized , agonizing thing .
there could be an extraordinary , wonderful , bizarre collaboration , a kind of conversation between tom and the alien , external thing that wasn &apos;t quite tom .
when i heard this story , it changed a little bit of the way i worked , and it saved me .
this idea saved me as i was in the middle of the writing process of pray , love , and i fell into one of these greeks of doubt that we all fall into when we work on something and it doesn &apos;t work . you start to think it &apos;s going to be a disaster . it &apos;s going to be the worst book ever written .
not just bad , but the worst of all time .
they call themselves the older brothers and say that we are the younger brothers for the destruction of the world .
i started to think i should just come up with the project .
but then i remembered tom talking in the open sky , and i tried .
so i took my view of the manuscript , and i spoke my commentary towards an empty corner of the room .
i spoke out loud : listen , you thing , you and i both know , if this book is not brilliant , it &apos;s not completely my fault , right ?
because you can see that i &apos;m investing everything i have . i don &apos;t have more than that .
so if you want to have it better , you have to cross here and maintain your fraction of the deal .
okay . but if you don &apos;t do that , you know what the hell is .
i &apos;m going to keep writing , though , because that &apos;s my job .
and i want to give you a protocol that i was here today for my part of the job .
because ... at the end , it &apos;s like this . centuries ago in the deserts of north africa , people have gathered moons with holy dances and music that have been held for hours -- to the dawn .
now this level of intuition becomes very important .
these solids were always great , because the dancers were professional , and they were fantastic .
but every once in a while , very rarely , something special happened , and one of the performers actually became transcendent .
and i know you know what i mean , because i know you &apos;ve all seen this kind of performance in your life .
it was as if the time was standing still and the dancer was walking through a kind of godfather . he did nothing but he had ever done before -- 1,000 nights before , but it all came together .
and all of a sudden , he no longer appeared purely human .
it was lit up from the inside , and it was lit from the bottom , and it was all illuminated by a divine fire .
when something like this happened , people knew what it was . they called it in his name .
they put their hands together , and they started singing , &quot; michael allah , allah , allah , god , god .
that &apos;s god , you know ?
interesting historical footnote : when the moses were conquering south spain , they brought this practice , and the language changed over the centuries of the allah , allah , allah to the olé , olé , olé , olé , that you still hear when you &apos;re fighting and flamenco dances .
every time we think of indigenous and landscape , we either shake rousseau and the old framework of the noble wild , which in its simplification is a racial thought , or on the other hand , thoreau , and say , these people are more connected to nature than we are .
if a performer in spain has done something impossible , something magical : an allah , olé , olé , allah , great , bravo , there it is : a glimpse of god .
and that &apos;s great , because we need that .
but , the tricky part follows the next morning , when the dancer wakes up himself and realizes that it &apos;s 11 o &apos;clock on a tuesday -- and he &apos;s no longer carrying a fifth of god .
he &apos;s just an aging mortal with painful knees , and maybe he &apos;s never going to get back to those heights .
and maybe no one will ever call god &apos;s name again when he rotates , but what should he do with the rest of his life ?
that &apos;s hard .
this is one of the most painful corrections of a creative life .
but maybe it doesn &apos;t have to be so full of pure if you didn &apos;t believe from the beginning that the most extraordinary aspects of your existence came from you .
if you just think you &apos;re a loan -- from an unthinkable source for a reader of your life that &apos;s passed on to somebody else when you &apos;re done with it .
when we start thinking about it that way , it changes everything .
so , indigenous people are not sentimental , nor are they chosen by the nostalgia .
so i started to think , and so i think for sure in the past few months , while i was working on the book , which is going to seem soon -- as the dangerous , scary , highly expected successor of my lost success .
what i have to tell myself all the time when i get crazy about this is , don &apos;t fear .
don &apos;t be discouraged .
just do your job .
be there for your contribution , whatever he wants to be .
if your job is dance , dance .
if the dumb divine genius that you &apos;re putting aside decides , for a moment , a little bit of wonder is to show you a little bit of miracle through your effort , then , you know , favor .
and if not , still dance your dance .
and , you know , in spite of all this .
i believe that , and i feel that we should teach that .
it &apos;s not a lot of space for this in the malaria searched swells of asmat or the cold winds of tibet , but they still , through time and ritual , have shaped a mysterious nimbus of the earth , which is not based on the idea of being aware of it , but on a much more subtle intuition , the idea that the earth can only exist because it &apos;s inhaled into human consciousness .
it &apos;s like , you know , in spite of all this , just for you to have the mere human love and self-sense of being there .
thank you .
thank you .
olé !
last year , i showed these two slides to illustrate that the arctic ice caps , which for nearly three million years , had shrinked the size of the lower 48 states , by 40 percent .
but this doesn &apos;t express very much enough the seriousness of this particular problem , because it doesn &apos;t show the thick of the ice .
in a sense , the arctic ice caps is the beating heart of our global climate system .
it grows in the winter and shrinks in summer .
the next slide i &apos;m going to show you is a time-lapse shot of what &apos;s happened in the last 25 years .
the permanent ice is marked with red .
well , what does that mean ?
as you can see , it &apos;s growing on the dark blue . this is the annual ice in the winter , and it &apos;s shrinking in summer .
the so-called permanent ice , five years old or older , is almost like blood that &apos;s going out of the body here .
in 25 years , it &apos;s going to be gone from here to here .
this is a problem , because the warming is frozen for the arctic ocean , where there &apos;s huge amounts of frozen carbon , which , when it &apos;s being saved , is transformed from microbes to methane .
compared to the entire amount of climate-changing materials in the atmosphere , this amount could double if we crossed this critical point .
already today , in some flat lakes in alaska methane , it &apos;s demanded by itself in the water .
professor katey walter at university in alaska has traveled to another flat lake last winter .
wow !
you &apos;re fine . the question is , how are we going to do it ?
and one reason is that this enormous warmth of greenland is heat from the north .
it means that a little kid from the andes who grows up in the belief that the mountain is an apu spirit who is his or her destiny will determine another person , and will have a different relationship with this resource or this place than a little kid from montana who &apos;s growing up in the belief that a mountain is a pile of stones that can be carried off .
this is an annual submersible .
but the volume is much bigger than ever before .
this is the kangerlussuaq river in southwest greenland .
if you want to know how sea level is going through land melting , it &apos;s going up here .
these rivers are growing rapidly .
at the other end of the planet , antarctica , the largest ice mass on the planet .
last month , researchers reported that the entire continent now has a negative ice sheet .
and the west antarctica , which has shown up over a few underwater islands , is particularly strong in melting .
this corresponds to 20 feet of sea level , like greenland .
in the himalayas , the third largest ice mass , you see new lakes on the top , which were glaciers a few years ago .
whether it &apos;s a place of mind or a pile of erce is irrelevant .
40 percent of all the people in the world get half of their drinking water from this melting water .
in the andes , this glacier is the drinking water source for this city .
the water levels have expanded .
but if you seal , most of the drinking water will fall away .
in california , a 40 percent reduction in the snowflake of the sierra .
this is the storage basin .
and the predictions of how you read them are serious .
this interceptions around the world lead to a dramatic increase in fire .
and the catastrophes all over the world have increased in a really extraordinary and unprecedented extent .
four times as many in the last 30 years as in the previous 75 .
the interesting thing is the metaphor that defines the relationship between the individual and nature .
this is a completely unsustainable development pattern .
if you look at this in the historical context , you can see what it &apos;s doing .
in the last five years , we &apos;ve produced 70 million tons of co2 every 24 hours -- 25 million tons a day in the oceans .
look at the area of the eastern pacific , the american continent western and both beyond the indian subcontinent , where there is a dramatic decline in oxygen in the ocean .
the biggest single factor for global warming , besides deforestation , which is 20 percent , is burning fossil fuels .
oil is a problem , and coal is the biggest problem .
the united states is one of the two largest polluters , along with china .
and the proposal was to build a lot of other coal factories .
but we &apos;re starting to see a change .
here are the ones that have been stripped in the last few years with some green alternatives that have been proposed .
i grew up in the forests of british colombia and believed that these forests were there to be eradicated .
there &apos;s a political argument in our country .
and the coal industries and oil industries have spent a quarter billion dollars last calendars to promote clean coal , which is a contradiction in itself .
this picture reminded me of something .
christmas went around , at home in tennessee , a billion tons of coal lamb .
you &apos;ve seen it in the news , apparently .
this is the second largest waste flow of america in our entire country .
this happened around christmas .
one of the commercials of the coal industry around christmas was this .
the carbon man is a happy , happy guy .
it &apos;s in skin and abundance in america , and it helps to grow our economy .
this made me another person than my friends under the kwakiutl , who believe that these forests of the uprising site of hukuk and the curved sky beak and the cannibali spirits that live in the nordening of the world , spirits that they would participate in their hamasa initiation .
frosty , the carbon man gets clean every day .
he &apos;s affordable and loving , and workers are in wage and bread .
this is the source of most coal in west virginia .
the most powerful miner is the head of massey coal .
let me say one very clearly . al gore , nancy pelosi , harry reid , you don &apos;t know what you &apos;re talking about .
so the alliance for climate protection has started two campaigns .
this is one part of it .
at coalergy , we see climate change as a serious threat to our business .
that &apos;s why we set ourselves at the top line to spend a significant amount of money trying to get a commercial action to get the truth about coal .
in fact , coal is not dirty .
now , if you start to look at the idea that these cultures can create different realities , you can understand some of their extraordinary discoveries , like this plant here .
we think it &apos;s clean -- and it smells good .
so , don &apos;t worry about climate change .
let &apos;s leave that .
clean coal , you &apos;ve heard a lot about it .
so let &apos;s take a tour of this modern , clean coal factory .
fantastic ! this machine is pretty loud .
but it &apos;s the sound of clean coal technology .
and yet burning coal is one of the main reasons for global warming , the remarkably clean coal technology that you see here changes everything .
look closely , this is today &apos;s clean , coal-fired technology .
finally , the positive alternative is mixing with our economic challenge and our challenge of national security .
all of these people teach us that there are other possibilities of existence , different ways of thinking , different ways of orienting on earth .
it &apos;s a photograph i just took last april in the northwest of the amazon .
america is in a crisis , the economy , national security , the climate crisis .
the red thread that connects all of these is our dependence on carbon-based fuels like dirty coal and foreign oil .
but now there &apos;s a brave , new solution to get us out of this miserable situation .
feed america with 100 percent clean electricity in the next 10 years .
a plan to bring america back to work , make us safer and help stop global warming .
finally , a solution that is large enough to solve our problems .
new america . find out more .
this is the last one .
it &apos;s about a new supply of america .
one of the fastest ways to reduce our dependence on old , dirty fuels that are sticking our world .
this is ayahuasca , which many of you have heard of , the most powerful psychoactive preparate from the repertoire of shame .
the future is here . wind , sun and a new energy system .
new investments to create well-paid jobs .
new america . it &apos;s time to accept reality .
there &apos;s an old african saying , &quot; if you want to be quick , go alone .
if you want to get far , go together . &quot;
we have to get a long way , and we have to get a long way .
thank you .
i want to start by asking you to think back to the time of your childhood when you were playing with building blocks .
while they realized how to reach out and grab the hands , take the claws and move , they actually learned to solve thinking and problems by understanding and changing spatial interactions .
spatial thinking is deeply connected to how we understand a lot of our environment .
as a computer scientist , inspired by the kind of interaction we had with real objects -- together with my professional patti and my colleague jeevan kalanithi , i began to wonder : what if we were to use computers that , instead of a mouse cursor , that moves like a digital fingertip on a flat surface of work -- what if we could intervene with both hands and physically arrange data and arrange it the way we want it to ?
this question was so poignant that we decided to explore the answer , and we developed siftables .
in short , a siftable is an interactive computer the size of a cookie .
they can be moved by the hand , they can perceive each other , they can capture their movements , and they have a screen and a radio receiver .
more importantly , they &apos;re physical , so you can only move them like building blocks by extending your hands and access .
and the siftables are an example of a new generation of tools to manipulate digital data .
and as these tools become more physical and become aware of their movements , recognize each other and perceive the hostilities of our dealings , then we can begin to explore new and entertaining interactions .
i &apos;m going to start with some simple examples .
this siftable is configured for the video review , and if i tip it in one direction , the video is played forward ; if i tip it in the other direction , it &apos;s going backwards .
and these interactive portraits are perceiving each other .
this plant contains some very strong tryptamins that are very similar to the serotonin , dimethyltryptamin 5 and methoxydimethyltryptamin .
so when i put them side-by-side , that &apos;s what interests them .
if you &apos;re surrounded by the indians , you &apos;ll notice that , and you can get a little nervous .
and they also feel their movements and their tendency .
and one interesting consequence of the interactions that we started to see was that we could apply everyday gestures to data , like shooting color in the way that you do with fluids .
in this case , we configured three siftables as a color pot , and i can use them to cast color in the middle , where they &apos;re then mixed .
if we exaggerate it , we can shoot back a little bit .
there are also some nice opportunities in education like languages , math or logic games , where we give people the possibility of fast trial and see the results immediately .
here i am -- this is a fibonacci series that i do with a simple equation program .
this is a game with words that &apos;s kind of a mixture of scrabble and boggle .
basically , you get every round on every siftable , randomly dedicated letter , and as you try to make words , they &apos;re tested on a dictionary .
if you &apos;ve ever seen the yanomami sniff this stuff , this substance that you make from different species also contains methoxydimethyltryptamin .
then , after about 30 seconds , you mix again , and you have a new combination of letters and new possibilities to try .
thank you .
these are some kids who came to the media lab on a trip , and i was able to get them to try it out and take a video of it .
they really loved it .
one interesting thing about these kinds of applications is that you don &apos;t have to give people a lot of instructions .
all you have to say is &quot; form words , &quot; and they know exactly what to do .
here &apos;s another couple of people who test it .
this is our youngest beta-tester down there on the bottom right .
it turns out that he just wanted to stack the siftables .
so for him , they were just building blocks .
so sniffing this powder is kind of like being shot out of a rifle , eaten by baroque paintings and landing on a sea of electricity .
this is an interactive trick-making twist .
we wanted to develop a tool for language learners .
this is felix .
he can bring new characters into the scene by lifting up the siftable from the table , showing this character .
this is him leaving the sun up .
the sun is going up .
now he &apos;s going to bring a tractor into the scene .
the orange tractor .
good work ! yeah !
by shaking the siftables and putting them next to each other , he can make the characters interact ...
it &apos;s not a distortion of reality , but the resolution of reality .
... inventing his own story .
hello !
it &apos;s a story with open end , and it can decide how it evolves .
flying cat .
the last example that i have time for today to show it is a music sequencer for live performances that we recently developed and operate in the siftables as sound , like leadership , bass and drums .
each has four different variations ; you can choose which one wants to use .
and you can put in these sounds into the sequence that you can put in any pattern .
and you eat it by just holding a sound siftable to a sequence sift .
there are effects that you can change live , like hall and filters .
you connect it to a certain tone , and then you tend to hire it .
in fact , i even discussed with my professor , richard evan shultes , the man who has introduced the psychedelic eyebrow with the discovery of the magic mushrooms in mexico in the 1930s , and i said that you couldn &apos;t order these tryptamins as a hallucination ogen , because the moment you feel the impact , you &apos;re no longer there to experience a hallucination .
and then even more super-ordered effects like speed and volume , which you apply to the whole sequence .
so let &apos;s see .
we start in which we put the leadership voice in two sequencing siftables and put them in a row , expand them and add a little bit more of the voice .
now i &apos;m adding a bass .
now i &apos;m going to do something else .
and now i &apos;m connecting the filter to the drums so i can control the effect live .
i can accelerate the whole sequence by tipping the pace in one direction or another .
and now i &apos;m connecting the filter with the barrel , for a little more expression .
i can reframe the sequence as it &apos;s going on .
so i don &apos;t have to plan them in the forefield , but i can improvise them ; they expand or shrink them in the process .
but the thing about tryptamins is that they can &apos;t be taken orally because they &apos;re denatured by a human gut , of course , occurring enzyme called monoamine oxidase .
and finally , i can shut out the whole sequence by bending the volume sift-left-handed .
thank you .
so as you can see , my excitement is to develop new human-computer interfaces that fit better with how our brains and bodies work .
and today i &apos;ve had time to show you a part of this new design world and some of the ways that we work on in our lab .
the idea that i want to leave you with is that we are on the verge of this new generation of ads to interact with digital media that bring information to our world that corresponds to our demands .
thank you .
i look forward to the conversations with all of you .
yeah , good afternoon .
i &apos;m happy i &apos;m there .
yeah , so what should be biohacking ?
they can only be connected to some other chemicals in the oral world that are denaturizing the mao .
i have to pick up a little bit about that , and that is that biohacking is about modern molecular biology .
i &apos;ve been studying molecular biology , and i &apos;ve been looking at biohacking just now for a few years , and that &apos;s what i started to do , because i just wanted to know more specifically , and i wanted to do it myself , which is what i learned theoretically in the study .
so , that was my primary motivation .
so it was a curiosity , and i wanted to sort of get closer to the matter , like that .
i think that molecular biology is generally now , generally speaking , biotechnology , everything you count on , synthetic biology and so on .
extremely important is , already extremely important , and much , much more important will be in the future .
there &apos;s some controversial things like these whole genetically engineered plants on the apples .
there &apos;s craig venter in the u.s. now , trying to make biofuel , which is gasoline from algae .
and then there are things that have come in totally everyday , but most people are not aware of , for example , washing enzymes that allow us to wash at 40 degrees of laundry are also genetically optimized enzymes .
and the list is endlessly continued .
and that &apos;s an idea that , if you think about it , can only fulfill you with hope .
now the fascinating thing is that the betakarboline that &apos;s in the liane are mao-inhibitors of exactly the kind that &apos;s necessary to potential the tryptamins . so ask yourself .
and so , from the interest of this , in this technology , i went into this .
so why hack ?
most people know this from the software sector .
computers hack , and then it &apos;s always going to be in the media , yeah , the hackers break in somewhere and claw data and so on .
it &apos;s kind of very sad for the hacking scene , because that &apos;s not what it actually started , and what &apos;s actually behind it .
and this is the software hackers , in the &apos; 70s , &apos; 80s , started with computer tinkering , and it also came out of the internet .
and it &apos;s about solving a problem in a playful , creative , original way .
and the problem , it &apos;s not just a technical problem , it can also be a social problem , it can be just a access problem , which simplifies like things , so any problem , to ask a question , and how do you make it different or how do you do it better ?
and it &apos;s just been raised with software , but it &apos;s also in the electronics , there &apos;s a whole bastler scene that does all kinds of electronics circuits .
and now , in the direction of biology , and i want to take this metaphor that comes out of synthetic biology , that biology is actually an information science , because , the d.n.a code is an abstract code , which is , yes , it &apos;s not exactly the same as computers , because it &apos;s more dynamic , because it &apos;s matter , so it &apos;s real matter , and it &apos;s not just cyber .
how can these people from a flora of 80,000 species of adstrinating plants find these two morphologically unrelated plants that , when combined in that way , create a kind of biochemical version , so that the whole thing is bigger than the sum of its parts ?
but it &apos;s also a code , and you can also code it , and you can hack it , like that , and i found it incredibly fascinating , and i just wanted to get a lot deeper .
that &apos;s actually only taken two thousand really shape , these networks .
there &apos;s hackteria dot org , which is originally from switzerland , which is with europe and with a cooperation in india based on the network , but now has members or active people around the world .
this is a more artistic execution , so there &apos;s a lot of artists and philosophers and collaborators with scientists to come together with these technologies and to ask questions and to process this creatively , there &apos;s museum exhibitions and yes , all kinds of things .
but it &apos;s really always about finding such a locker access , having a playful approach with it .
and then there &apos;s do-it-yourself bio dot org , d.i.y.bio .
this is a network from the u.s.a , which is actually more of a kind of a forum where you &apos;re going to meet and discuss online .
they &apos;re a little bit more technical , and they &apos;re a little bit more entrepreneurial , and they &apos;re also asking , you know , a little bit of questions .
and based on these networks that have made the whole popular , it has evolved a scene that i just want to portray for a moment .
here in the image on the top left , you see biocurious , which is a hackerspace , so basically a kind of school , a private school , nonprofit contract , where everyone can come from .
we use this great euphemism , trial and error , which turns out to be meaningless .
kids , old , all kinds of people go there to just sit down with them , they set up a lab , and they look at what you can do when these lab protocols .
down here on the bottom left is a group in indonesia called house-of-natural fiber , but they &apos;ve been around for quite a long time .
it &apos;s been longer than these other two networks .
they &apos;re also involved in an artistic aspect of this with biological materials , and , yes , also electronics bastles , and they &apos;re combining it in a very remote way .
a group of ankara , which i met a while ago , they have this is a group of students who wanted to give more attention to the public , what they &apos;re learning in college , and they &apos;ve been doing these kind of street things and trying to explain to people what d.n.a is .
and i have a lecture up in the other picture in copenhagen at the medical museum in combination with an exhibition on the subject .
and that is , yes , that &apos;s mostly quite young people , but the only thing that actually makes you all together is that fascination with technology .
and what you can do with it , and also , quite targeted the society to go and ask , &quot; okay , what do you know , what do you want to do with it , do you have an interest in bringing you into it ? &quot;
so , o.k , to hack biology , you kind of need materials .
you need biological materials , of course , and you also need tools , and that &apos;s a lab .
but they ask the indians , they say , &quot; the plant speaks to us . &quot;
or , in a way , what you normally understand under a lab is that kind of discarded machines , extremely expensive , extremely distance , just for professionals , trained academics with ph.d. students and so on .
and our approach was to say , okay , you don &apos;t really have to do that .
it &apos;s actually not necessary , because every coffee machine has actually higher technology than most laboratories , which is really the way it is .
and then , for example , s o , with this premise , brian degger , in england , tried to put together a minimum abor , then took a steam pressure cookie , a heat sheet , and , yes , supplies , and then grew bacteria , worked .
so anyone who &apos;s been playing a soup that he &apos;s left too long has done .
so i tried this in my lab at home to expand a little bit , and then bought me a little bit of second-hand equipment on ebay and did some d.n.a analysis , trying to do a father &apos;s test , which is , you know , like , a fingerprinting , you know , back home .
it &apos;s not supposed to be a joke , but it &apos;s not .
down here in this picture , you can see the lab , in leadership , so there &apos;s this kind of a garage with all kinds of lab pile that the university has been doing , a group in paris that has been doing something , and it &apos;s pretty successful , and it &apos;s also pretty interesting things , and i also want to cut a project for a second .
and this is biocurious , who &apos;s also mentioned hackerspace , this kind of volcano school , basically for molecular biology .
and yeah , so , you see , it &apos;s relatively straight , so that &apos;s there &apos;s a lot of people who are doing this alone , all the way down to big , big , larger organizations that are already doing this in more institutionalized form .
so what does that mean ?
but always the idea that it should be simple and accessible .
the first project that we &apos;ve done as an international group , when we &apos;ve become sort of aware of ourselves , ok , it &apos;s also giving us here as a real scene , and we &apos;re online , and we &apos;re so familiar with the people who are always chatting and so forth .
and then came from the do-it-yourself bio org website of the founders , and said , &quot; okay , we &apos;ve got to really meet , we &apos;ve got to actually meet , we &apos;ve got to do real meetings , and then we &apos;ve organized two events , one in london , two thousand 10 , and we just got to the united states , san francisco . &quot;
and then , there it was , yes , who are we , what do we want , what do we want to share ?
and what are our values , and what are our targets , our basis ?
and then we worked out a code-of-conduct .
that was quite intuitive , so everyone just expressed their wishes , his and what moves them stop , then .
there was , in my opinion , a very good code .
and then we have this one that &apos;s not comprehensive , but that &apos;s , i think , well , i think it &apos;s been pretty good , people are quite convinced of this .
and we even tried to bring it back to the academic world , but it didn &apos;t sort of get there .
this tribe , the cofan , has 17 varieties of ayahuasca that you all recognize at great distances in the forest that seem to us as a species to our eyes .
so i think we &apos;re from the biohacker scene , in fact , a step further than the academic world .
yeah , what kind of projects do we do now ?
one project i did with the hackteria network in switzerland was that we wanted to build something called an optical trap or an optical pink chain .
this is , if you focus a laser beam on you in the room , you can catch little particles in the air , or in the liquid , and then move in that focus , so it &apos;s captured there , like a tractor beam , basically .
this really works , this is done in the academic setting , and then we thought , okay , we might get that , then we took a webcam that &apos;s going to screw the lens off , turn the lens off , then you have a microscope that &apos;s going to expand about four hundred times .
you can see that down there .
and then we took a d.v.d brenner apart , and we took the laser out , and then we tried to focus on this camera .
and that didn &apos;t work , unfortunately , but we &apos;ve learned a lot about it .
this is another project that came out of the french group in paris , that worked out , that &apos;s pretty cool .
and that is , he &apos;s got a kind of a brain wave measurement device , so e.e. , or something like that , so he &apos;s been dealing with neurobiology , his nickname is sam neurohack .
and then they ask them how to start their taxonomy , and they say , &quot; i thought you understand something about plants .
he then built this helmet there , and in the cooperation with the museum , that &apos;s what happened .
and then the visitors could go in the room , sit on this chair , sit down this helmet .
then their brainwaves were measured , and depending on what they thought , or how they thought , there were different lights in the room .
it was a pretty fake project .
another thing from the united states , which has to do with this father &apos;s history , is the p.c.r , which is the polymerase-chain response , complicated word .
so it &apos;s about copying genes , replicating genes , which is n.a , fragments , so you can make them visible .
so now , if i do that , the profilers in the crime scene , then they go and collect any hair-samples , and then they do this method , and then they can say , okay , this hair belongs to this person , like this .
and the machines that do this , they &apos;re pretty expensive to buy commercially , the cheapest ones go off at 4,000 euros .
and that &apos;s not in the hobbyists , but it &apos;s a really cool technology that can do a lot .
so this is just an application of many that you can do with it .
i mean , you know nothing at all ? &quot; and i said , &quot; no . &quot;
and they &apos;ve set up two builders like this , and they &apos;ve said , okay , we &apos;re going to make this easier and cheaper , and then we &apos;ve got open source , which is available hardware , electronics , this device , and they &apos;re now the cheapest providers of these devices in the world .
i think , kind of , six dollars or something like that .
but anyway , it &apos;s still not cheap now , but it &apos;s definitely in a frame where it &apos;s much more available .
so it &apos;s , i think , a very lovely hack .
one project that i started recently was to build a gene gun .
gene-gun is , yes , like a kind of air-printing gun , which shoots about this far , two centimeters or so .
you invite d.n.a to gold particles and the gold particles into these air pressure pistol , and then i shot them on onions and then i made them light like this .
so the device that you see there didn &apos;t work .
but this is my prototype , which was so much like my prototype , but it was kind of going off , like , on such a branch , attached the thing to it , electronics on it and pressure , and that was too high , but the pressure was too high , the thing was broken .
and then i took a judge and i plucked it in .
so it turns out that you take each of the 17 variants on full moon and you sing them to one in a different note .
a ancestor , if you make the full of water , it has enough pressure , so i think it &apos;s about 40 to six hundred bar .
and then you can accelerate the particles so much enough , and then they go into the onion .
and the commercial device costs about fifteen thousand euros upward or something like that , clusters about 50 .
so it doesn &apos;t have the same efficiency , but it &apos;s basically sustainable .
so that &apos;s what &apos;s going on right now as well as the core issue of the scene is to increase this availability of technology and also increase the information and understanding that more people can engage there .
because , as i said at the beginning , it &apos;s an extremely important technology , and most people have quite little idea of it , and also no opportunity to form really well .
because if you just read about it , from secondary literature , that &apos;s not the same as if you did it yourself or saw it .
and i think technology is becoming more and more important in our modern societies .
and if you want to be an informed citizen , you want to be able to make meaningful decisions in society , you need access to knowledge and to technology .
and you also have to do it and understand it to do it and understand it .
now , this doesn &apos;t give you a harvard ph.d. , but it &apos;s much more interesting to count than triina .
and that then fires under the phrases of open knowledge and citizen science .
so , as citizens , you &apos;re going to be able to deal with these scientific technologies .
and this is the core issue of the biohackers .
these are the people who at least officially agreed on the website , d.i.y.bio-dot-org website .
this is a relatively remarkable number of people around the world .
and what &apos;s interesting is that they &apos;re also in southeast asia .
that &apos;s what i think they &apos;re there , they &apos;re less people than they actually exist .
so i know some of you who didn &apos;t agree .
and these are just the biohackers now , the individual people .
in part , with these hackerspaces , these places are put together .
