you know , one of the great sensitives of traveling and one of the joys in ethnography is to live with the people who still remember the old days , who still feel their past in the wind , touch them on the rained stones , taste them in the bitter leaves of plants .
together , the myriad cultures of the world form a web of spiritual and cultural life that wraps the earth and is as important for the good of the earth as the biological web that you know as a biosphere .
now , the problem -- the problem is that even those of us who have sympathy for the difficult situation of the native , they look at it as orginistic and colorful , but they sort of narrow it down to the past , while the real world , that &apos;s where our world is going .
and that &apos;s in the very beginning .
as i said , it just started , two thousand .
and hackerspaces , the computer hackerspaces , because the c-base in berlin was the first , ninety-hundred .
and this is now a huge network of very good , yes , infrastructure centers that are represented all over the world .
and we &apos;re hoping , of course , that we &apos;re going to be able to spread the same way , and then we &apos;re going to be pretty well connected , so that we can get more people involved in it .
and i would invite each time to deal with it and also try something .
now it &apos;s not that simple , but it &apos;s not impossible , if you have enough curiosity and you have enough energy in it , you get a long way .
thank you for listening .
that &apos;s it .
yes , hello .
so , the fact is that in 300 years , you will remember not for your wars or technological innovations , but rather than an era in which we were facing and the massive destruction of the biological and cultural diversity on earth either actively supported or passively accepted , so the problem is not change .
how do we actually work ?
this is a question that really drives me as a designer , but also in the field of research and usability , and most of all , in the field of user experience .
this is how you encounter people in interactive media so that they can use these interactive media and make it a satisfying experience .
because i believe that the interactive media within us is addressing archaic , cognitive models , thinking patterns that have been programmed in our biological memory very , very long ago , and that we can just bring them back through interactive media .
and this is very amazing , because you actually believe that this high-tech thing that you &apos;re facing is that it &apos;s actually going to bring you into the future , but in fact , the future is right with us at our archaic roots .
now , what are archaic models ?
i wrote down four words , and i &apos;d like to explain them briefly .
in archaic cognitive models , these are the models that we &apos;ve been able to do in the pre-industrial times .
one of these archaic models is that we have a natural relationship to virtuality in principle .
this is basically the first time that sounds unusual .
all cultures have been involved in the dance of new life .
but i &apos;m going to go back to that in a moment and prove to you by trying to prove that you also have a natural relationship to virtuality .
the second thing is that since these archaic models , we &apos;ve been able to speak very , very paintingly , even though we use a codified language today .
and the third area , which actually explains itself .
we all know that interactive media by definition is nonlinear , which includes the reason of linearity , and which of course tells us that we now feel linearity as normal .
the fourth point is that the story for us is a place of information delivery .
now what about the virtuality that &apos;s actually the most natural thing in the world .
i want to prove that to you .
how many doors do you have the house that you live in ?
we &apos;re not going to be able to answer them immediately , but this is going to happen , and it &apos;s going to happen right now .
they go through this house in the mind , where they live , and they look at how many doors there are .
and the problem is not technology itself .
and that &apos;s exactly what they do .
they virtualize reality without computers .
fantastic , right ?
and we &apos;re struggling to do the media campus , for example , represent virtual reality in our v.r. lab , and we can actually do it all the time .
and that capacity to virtualize the reality that people have had to have bitter in the pre-industrial times , because they didn &apos;t have anything .
they didn &apos;t have books .
or they didn &apos;t have photolitography .
they didn &apos;t have mass media .
the only thing they had was their head .
and in that mind , the memory was playing off .
the sioux indians didn &apos;t listen to being less on sioux than they were bow and arrow tasks when americans stopped being americans when they were doing horses and horses .
in this head , knowledge was called , and with these virtual images , the imagination , knowledge was also passed on .
and so it &apos;s so much rooted in us that we can deal with virtuality so well .
what &apos;s interesting about this is , if i can make a little trip .
yeah , it goes .
and what &apos;s interesting about this is that at the time , the human being was also media producers and medium itself .
now , if you think a little bit further .
what are the media today ?
then you &apos;ll notice that there was a change .
but i &apos;ll talk about that in a moment .
fundamental tool of information training has been stories since all the time .
not change and technology threaten the integrity of the ethnosphere . it &apos;s power . the ugly face of the rule .
shamanites , priests , so-called knowledge guards , were extracted to preserve knowledge in stories .
and we &apos;re still very , very strong about stories today .
the author of the book the storytelling animal , jonathan gotchall , we &apos;re still interacting with a thousand hours a year with the recipe of stories .
that means that for a child who has spent most of his life achieving the greatness of his greatness with the recipe of stories .
now we think that our love of stories depends on us as a child sitting on the lap of our parents .
no , no , far missing .
that goes way back to the cultures of pre-industrial times .
but to me , in the realm of interactive media , what &apos;s really impressive is that we &apos;ve anchored by se in our biological memory , the ability to think nonlinear .
i gave you an example of the north american tribe of nootka-indian .
and the lives lived in the coastal region of british columbia .
and as you can see , this is a very island area , and you had to sort of navigate from island to island to get food .
and they did this with what &apos;s called lead-maps .
you may know that , if you &apos;re a little bit interested in it , from the australian native americans .
they have similar principles .
they don &apos;t have lead-maps , but they used songlines , or traumps , like that .
and what &apos;s interesting about this is that the navigation and the topography of regions could be represented by songs .
and the language was subordinated by the subordinated .
that is , you navigate through sound and through rhythm .
and these sounds and this rhythm have shown the geology , the topography of a region , and that , of course , also enabled you to defragment these songs and put them together differently , and so you could move to the left , right and also go back to the outcome .
why don &apos;t we sing to go from the top of a to the b ?
or if we go to the mountains of tibet , where i study a lot recently , you &apos;ll see the ugly face of political dominance .
anyway , not to navigate .
what actually happened ?
it &apos;s happened that this is such a genus machine age .
we &apos;ve moved in what we call the avian age before .
and what happened was the machine age , and what happened was the book , and it happened was photoolitography .
and that &apos;s what &apos;s happened is that we &apos;ve shifted the responsibility for our memories and the production of our individual memories to external media .
on the book and on the image .
so , unfortunately , we &apos;ve lost a piece of god to virtualize .
virtuality suddenly has become alien to us , and has nothing to do with reality .
bruce brown , a famous design researcher at brighton university , has gone so far as to say that this mass media , he means the book and the image , which is not television , the internet and so on , what we call mass media today , that these mass media fossilized our memories and has virtualized our ability to virtualize .
you know , the genocide , the physical extinction of people is generally convicted , but the ethnocid , the destruction of people &apos;s lifestyle , is not only convicted , but generally celebrated as part of a developmental strategy .
let &apos;s make a little footprint .
from the avian age to the machine age .
what has influences on our thinking and on our memories ?
then these are fading influences of pre-industrial cultures .
and they have been more and more transcribed over the centuries by the influences of the machine age .
that is , instead of remembering ourselves individually , we have standardized , widespread , widespread patterns of memories that we can hang our personal memories on .
we &apos;re not producing ourselves anymore .
we have an abstract language .
we don &apos;t think of it in pictures anymore that things aren &apos;t in pictures , but we codify them our language to you .
we &apos;ve gotten used to things linear happening .
and you can &apos;t understand the suffering of tibetan if you haven &apos;t experienced it at the bottom level .
and we accepted linearity as a law , and there are only exceptions , like non-linearity .
what we &apos;ve remained is the story telling .
we &apos;re still very , very arrested with the story telling of information .
the question is , what &apos;s next ?
we had the vocabulary age , we had the machine age , and we now describe what we call the cyberage .
it sounds very spacey , and it sounds very much like science fiction , i know .
but these concepts of the cyber-age that bring us back these opportunities to rediscover our skills .
it &apos;s about virtuality , it &apos;s about non-linearity , it &apos;s about storytelling .
i want to explain that a little bit for a second .
there are technical concepts like augmented reality , which is the augmented reality .
you can think of this cultural web of life as an ethnosphere . ethnosphere can be defined as the total sum of all thoughts and dreams , myths of ideas , inspiration and intuitions that have been created by the human imagination since the beginning of consciousness .
i once traveled with a young colleague , 6,000 miles from chengdu to western china , across southeast tibet to lhasa , and only when i came to lhasa , i saw the face behind the statistics that you hear about : 6,000 sacred monuments that were turned into rubble and ashes , 1.2 million people who were murdered by the cades during the cultural revolution .
so if you look at google glass , for example , it &apos;s a concept that makes us recombine the virtual world with the real world , which is our affinity to virtualization , to feel virtual as something normal , natural , is coming back .
another example is what &apos;s called virtual reality .
as crazy as this may sound in the context of my talk , we &apos;re physically moving into non-existential , virtual worlds , just the model of the holodeck .
and other examples are the ambient , intelligent systems .
these are spaces that can respond to a human being intelligently .
all of this needs the ability to accept our basic ability to accept virtuality as a real habitat .
i graduated , and i hope the video works , a very , very beautiful project , which is the bachelor work of michael burk , ann-kathrin crence , joris klause and jan-moritz garbage .
and the two last ones are here today .
maybe you can stand up for a second , so they can talk to the pause with the two about the project .
and i brought this project back to the example of how this archaic , cognitive model is addressed again .
the father of this young man was identified as the follower of the panel lama .
the whole thing is a game , i have to say .
which , of course , is extremely opposed to the story , and it &apos;s a computer game .
and when i say computer games , you &apos;re very likely to see that some people are happy with some console , or playing with some console in their hand .
anyway , they do it in there .
this is a game for the outside .
and that &apos;s meant to discover the outside world , so i &apos;m rediscovering the real world .
and this game connects the virtual world , which is the data that we produce with the real world .
i apologize that i have to cut so much .
you can explain that in a moment , and there &apos;s a lot more to it .
and the point is that i explore a city by looking at where positive or negative has been twittered .
that meant that he was killed immediately during the chinese invasion .
and so i get a very different view of the city , a very different impression , which is that i see negative and positive zones of a city , and i get a very different virtual map of a very real city .
and we can look at that now .
ah , what you can see here , sorry , is a little explanation of what you &apos;re about to see .
of course , this virtual world lives in the walls of our cities , and it &apos;s clear .
and with a kind of flashlight , we can make these virtual worlds visible .
so , i &apos;d like to summarize my talk , and that is , in the sense that the properties and the skills that we &apos;ve acquired from the age of technology , and that we &apos;ve gone a little bit in the machine age , that they can be re-activated with what we call the cyber age , and that in this way , we can get back to our roots about complex , technological , new products , not actually into the future , but actually back to us .
thank you .
yeah , i &apos;m very pleased to be with you .
i &apos;ve just been asked if this bag is a talking bag , and it &apos;s going to be mine instead of speaking .
he &apos;s not going to do that .
his uncle flew into the diaspora with her holiness , which brought people to nepal .
i &apos;m also going to resolve what &apos;s in there .
but i &apos;m just going to make it a little bit curious .
yes , kids are naturally curious or should be curious , designers as well .
i &apos;m a designer of house , so i &apos;m also looking at the issue of curiosity , and how the curiosity also changes our thinking again , and why do we maybe lose curiosity and have to repel it , and so on .
this is a whole range of things that you &apos;re dealing with next to the actual existence as a creator .
when professors get curious , they &apos;re often pushed into this kind of research semester .
and that &apos;s also what i &apos;ve had in the last half a year .
a research semester on natural user interface design .
now , you &apos;re going to ask yourself , why do all these shapes begin to engage with such natural , archaic forms of communication , interactions and so on ?
and i &apos;m just holding one of these little devices up because things are supposed to be more intuitive , more and more natural , user-friendly , and you have to look at what &apos;s actually natural for us humans , what &apos;s user-friendly or intuitive .
his mother was locked in as a punishment for -- for the crime to be wealthy .
and in front of the background , i &apos;ve been in the field of natural user design , which is the next generation of human computing , so in the relationship of the human computer , i &apos;ve been working on how our tools , or how the computer changes from the computer to the digital assistant .
so i &apos;ve been working on when is what &apos;s natural or intuitive .
maybe you have to look back at it .
why does this happen at all ?
so if we look at the evolution of our society , in short , we &apos;re moving from the third to the fourth social generation or social form .
so from modern to computer society .
every society is shaped by a primarily medium .
at the beginning , the tribal society through language .
that means that you found yourself by talking a common language , you could communicate with each other , you &apos;d move to the same cave , you &apos;d come to other areas , you &apos;d created cities , you know , villages , and you &apos;d created , you know , tribal society .
but the primary medium was the language , something very natural , something very living .
he was smuggled into jail at the age of two to hide under her rockcippet because she couldn &apos;t live without him .
you also had to learn , so no small child can speak naturally , but we learn it sukessively and proportionately , of course .
that was then dissolved by the ancient society and the first form of abstraction .
that was a huge outcry at the time , because , of course , you start manifest the living language in the form of writing , which is what fluid and alive is , i start and i start to manipulate it .
depending on how i &apos;m going to cup and when i &apos;m doing it , it &apos;s a very different coverage , of course , than if there &apos;s a kind of living coverage .
but then sukessive moved this script as a primarily medium , came in .
and then the next generation that we actually live in today is primarily .
this is the script that &apos;s coined by pressure and print with gutenberg and others .
at the time , it was just as a monkey ront , where adel , klerus and others said , you &apos;re actually insane when people start reading , then the afterwards want to talk to you , and of course that &apos;s totally fatal .
and now we &apos;re going to get to the next generation , and the exciting thing is , a generational shift is just every few hundred years , and we &apos;re really in this phenomenal phase right now that we &apos;re doing this .
of course , we &apos;re totally confused because we see on the one hand the new media , social media , facebook and so on and so forth .
the sister who did this brave act was brought into an education camp .
with the total transparency , what the new thinking is , what bangs on old thinking , don &apos;t say that in the lasagne horse meat , and no longer beef , or other phenomena , which is , i want to do it right now , and i don &apos;t want to do it .
and these two worlds are banging on each other , thinking new and old .
the exciting thing about this is , when you look at this , this new society , this computer society , rejects very many mechanisms , principles and archaic paradigms from the tribal society .
now , not anymore at the local level , but at the global level .
we &apos;ve understood that the weather is global .
that ecology is a global issue .
not if i think locally here , and the neighbor thinks less ecologically , it doesn &apos;t work anymore .
that is , in fact , from the local village , a global village has become a global village with the same principles , possible , of course , as intuitive , but also the total transparency .
as you knew back in the village , who has what to do with whom and when , this is happening today about this expansion of our self through these mobile final devices on a global scale .
whether we know global clusters and aggregate faster and faster and better .
one day , she stepped out on a armband maos , and for seven years , she had to go to a heavy job camp .
just like it happened before , in the village .
i &apos;ve just been busy looking at it , what does it actually mean , what &apos;s natural for us , what might we have lost , but what &apos;s instinctive for us , so what makes the difference ?
because people often come , they can &apos;t make it user-friendly so that anybody can deal with it .
so you have to deal with it , which means that , and not just change it , that it &apos;s different , but it should be better .
and when , of course , is an intuitive thing , and how can i , as a designer , make things so that they &apos;re a user-friendly , so they &apos;re intuitive , because then they &apos;re fun and easy to use .
you then , even during the course of studying , you &apos;re dealing with the subject of perception and perceptual psychology .
and that &apos;s , of course , where you start and look and say , okay , now i just look inside the inner self .
and what does it actually look like in there ?
so how do we work when we look in there ?
and what does it really mean , of course , intuitively and how do our channels work in perception , and how does cognitive processing work work ?
the suffering can be intolerable , but the redemption spirit of people is something unforgettable .
because steve jobs once said you need to go to dig deeper to understand how works .
so you really have to look in detail if i want to make something user-friendly or intuitively handable , which means at the core .
and you can see that a is our seven senses , most people think we only have five , and it &apos;s already seven , and it certainly comes in the near future , and also , again , an extension of ourselves .
and to look at how do we process information , how do we take information ?
to say , what is information ?
information is every difference that makes a difference .
many people use the word , but they don &apos;t know what it means then .
but i have to understand , at the core , in nature , when is information going to be information , when is data and information going to know , so that i know how to make things intuitive or , of course , handable .
and of course , how design affects perception .
we see this here , when i make things , i can make them confusing like on the right , where i don &apos;t know what &apos;s salt and pepper , or i can make them kind of intuitive by showing things .
and in the end , we &apos;re really in front of a choice : do we want to live in a monochromatic world of monotonia or in a polychromatic world of diversity ?
so a lot more natural , in a vessel , but i kind of see where salt and pepper is in there .
and when i tell someone , you know , give me salt or pepper , they &apos;re going to be thinking about where &apos;s in the right .
and on the left , just intuitively , and then i hope that no sugar is in there , that salt is going to be there .
but also our perception of ourselves , how it &apos;s fooling us .
for example , this perception in context .
the right circle looks bigger than the little one , even though that &apos;s not the case , but they &apos;re just the same size , and yet our perception changes depending on what context we put things in .
does anybody know what that is ?
come on .
pattern recognition should work .
that &apos;s where it &apos;s going to be more like my glasses .
ethnosphere is the great legacy of humanity .
margaret mead , the great anthropologist , before she died , said that her greatest fear is that , as we move towards a thread , shape-free , generic view , we &apos;re not only going to see the entire range of human imagination reduced in a way of thinking , but that one day we wake up from a dream and forgot that there were other possibilities .
so it &apos;s a circle .
a second circle is already beginning to correlate or associate some similarity .
and when i put a halboval on it , we suddenly see not just one more unit , which is circle , circle and , but we see one unit , we don &apos;t see another three parts , one circle , another circle , another .
it &apos;s called the gesture law , or the gesture psychology , which also affects us in perception .
it &apos;s important for the designers , they usually have this in the first semester , the great design laws .
gesture law of the nearby , gesture law of the continuity and so on .
often in the third , forgot again .
but this is an essential component , if you want to make things very intuitive .
the next phenomenon , which is also very interesting in vision .
sounds very banal to the first time , but it &apos;s really exciting when you get closer to it .
and it &apos;s humbling to think that our species may have been around for 600,000 years .
so we have the eyes on the front , and now you think we see from the front to the back .
that &apos;s wrong .
you first see from the back to the front .
and that is , they projute a premise that they see something that they recognize , unprecedented circle .
that is , we &apos;re only projoling our vision before we see it , bringing it back into our semiconductor to say , okay .
i &apos;ve got this cognitive feedback , you &apos;ve projoled what you want to see .
and that &apos;s where it comes from , and then it comes back .
and then it goes forward , because the back doesn &apos;t trust the front , and it says , well , look at it again , and see if what you see is also what you want to see .
and then it goes back and then it &apos;s actually seen .
so a very , very exciting process of how certain things are going on and in what kind of millisecond areas these things are happening .
the neolithic revolution that brought us agriculture , and at that moment we were undertaking the cult of the seeds , replaced the poetry of the shaman by the prose of the priesthood and hierarchy , specialization and shooting -- only 10,000 years ago .
i don &apos;t know who knows this picture is .
that &apos;s exactly the same thing that i just described .
now , everybody from this pattern is trying to see something .
i don &apos;t know who recognizes what .
anybody see anything in particular ?
a dalmatina , right .
once i saw that , that &apos;s a dalmatina in there , you know that .
you &apos;ll never forget it because i &apos;m going to show you where the dalmatina is .
now you see the dalmatiner .
and on and on , now you see it .
the modern industrial world as we know it is hardly 300 years old .
that means that i &apos;ve now actually spoiled them to the point where they don &apos;t recognize any pattern in there , but i &apos;ve conditioned them in a very short period of time to see this dog again and again in this distorted image .
and this is this projection of vision , feedback , vision .
now i know , and now i &apos;m projuring forward that i see the dalmatina .
i see the dalmatiner .
so , very , very exciting processes , which are then in this , yes , gray is actually not , but it &apos;s just here in this rosane mass .
does anybody know what three seconds are ?
long , yeah .
that &apos;s our present .
so , it &apos;s also always interesting to know as designers .
if i know something takes three seconds to sort of take me out of the present to the last loop , i can also bridge very well wait times when i do it by engaging someone in three seconds .
now , this surface story doesn &apos;t tell me that we have all the answers to the challenges that we face in the coming millennia .
he &apos;s got to process that as a present .
and then it goes into the past , and so i can bridge very elegantly wait times , for example , on the computer , if i know this phenomenon .
what takes five milliseconds ?
yes , milliseconds .
it &apos;s also a very exciting phenomenon .
this is the time when you fall in love .
that means , notice , if you know that now , pay attention to who you &apos;re looking at like a long time , because i don &apos;t take over any election for what can happen .
and six milliseconds , also a very exciting phenomenon .
that &apos;s the time period of most of the perceptions that we have .
that is , this first impression is happening at a rapid speed of how we perceive things .
if we ask these myriad world cultures about the importance of being human , they answer with 10,000 different voices .
and as we see things , what we &apos;re looking at , and how we &apos;re sort of going to protect ourselves against our environment , so that we can think about it that way .
of course , the designers are not just dealing with perceptions and neural processing or cognitive imaging , but primarily , with the subject of the human object relationship .
so how is a human being about certain things ?
there &apos;s a product language , which is the practical functions , so formalaesthetic aspects or formalaesthetic aspects .
there are signature functions , where i know exactly where to reach .
but there are also symbolic functions , why does someone spend such a little pocket where there &apos;s hardly anything in it , so horrendous amounts of money , even though it &apos;s not so practical ?
and we &apos;re more likely to be at the symbolic level , at the level of meaning that we , as designers , are dealing with .
back to my actual theme of natural user interface and the subject , which , of course , is usability .
usability always means how can i achieve a certain goal , or how can a user , in a certain context of use , be effective , efficient and satisfied .
that &apos;s what the norm says .
and in this song , we &apos;re going to rediscover the possibility of being what we are : people with full consciousness who are aware of the importance that all people and gardens have to flourish a space , and there are great moments of optimism .
how can i make something possible for user-friendly ?
can i use that directly , or do i need a manual , or do i need a setup of training for it .
and less usable or usable is it .
that i &apos;m just doing this differently and more beautiful doesn &apos;t mean that it &apos;s better handable .
you also have to understand that .
and then , in part , if you look at the software that we just saw , you &apos;ll also understand why ninety-nine percent of our software today is less intuitive or not utilitarian , including the i-pad in many areas or i-phone , even though it &apos;s much more intuitive than classic software .
now , intuitive usability has not been a fundamental factor since apple , a fundamental factor of success , if i just want to make technology devices available to people .
why ?
because usually , through this new kind of usability , you know , the natural user ínterfaces , for example , are five times faster on average on our goal .
you have to imagine that if you do something of the classic sofers , you need five hours and this new kind of natural software only for an hour .
here &apos;s a photograph i took at the north end of the baffin islands when i went hunting inuits to the narwhal hunt , and this man , olaya , told me a wonderful story of his grandfather .
that doesn &apos;t mean that you &apos;re going to be allowed to go home for probably four hours , but you &apos;re going to be able to get your employer , or anyone &apos;s going to be thinking about them for the four hours .
but i want to say that , of course , for us , it &apos;s a corresponding increase in performance to make certain things .
so if we go back to the software area , here &apos;s the first command line interfaces , which were very abstract , where it took months to deal with these systems .
and then the next one , which has already worked with the nem neural model or mental model like the software eergonoma , which is to have an idea of something , the metaphor , the metaphor of a desktop , to make the computer usable .
so not anymore zeroes and ones or cryptic codes , but a metaphor .
that made it much more user-friendly , but it &apos;s also , of course , much better .
the next generation of graphic user surfaces is already working a lot more with behavior .
so , as a designer , i &apos;m much more likely to shape behavior than that to look .
it &apos;s also a paradigm shift .
that all of a sudden , i think that this looks increasingly unimportant to success , and the usability is becoming an application .
the canadian government has not always been very good at the inuit , and during the 50th years , the establishment of our ruling , they were forced to move into settlements .
and if i go one step further into these natural interfaces , where i have a voice , by language , by touch , by gesture , not by mouse and cursor , things have to control , i &apos;m even faster and immediate .
but that also leads me back to the point where are things actually getting more intuitive ?
when you get more intuitive and then i have to punish my little friend here and look at it , what does that mean from the perspective of cognition , when is it really intuitive now ?
and this is something intuitive for us , always , when i have to think very little about it .
so , apparently , he doesn &apos;t want to think , but he &apos;s going to make it reasonably easy .
the less i think about it , the more intuitive it is .
and what does that mean for the designer ?
that is , if we look at the fact that we can transfer existing action models from one to another , for example , the metaphor , then i can use that as a designer .
that is , i can transfer an intuitive human model into software , and make the software much more user-friendly .
now , of course , the question is , what is the most intuitive act of us humans , and i &apos;ve already said .
the grandfather of this old man refused .
this is the so-called osit model .
this is what each of us uses , and osit is an acronym , and it stands for guidance , selective , informed , transformed .
that &apos;s what each of you does all the time , but it does it unconsciously and , in a way , intuitively or partly , instinctively .
the model is already being exploited in the womb , and it &apos;s interculturally , so it works in young and old around the world , and it &apos;s used by us all the time , without most of us knowing that this model is there .
osit osit is going to be about 50 to 70 thousand times as much as ever after activity , so in the sleep , you &apos;ve found that it &apos;s going to be less frequent than the day .
i can now orient this mental action model , select , inform , transfer it to an interaction system .
and through this kind of transmission , much like the metaphor of the desktop , but now not a metaphor of a physical object , but a metaphor of a action pattern , of a action principle .
and this is on a higher grail of usage friendliness than that of transmission of a classical metaphor , which is the desktop .
and if i &apos;m transferring this now , for example , where i &apos;m orienting as a supervision , selecting as a choice , informing in the trap , it &apos;s big to me , i can look at it in detail , and yes , transaction is , i can throw this up somewhere or send somebody in and so on .
then i can transmit this whole thing .
it &apos;s the symbol of all of what we are and what we are capable of as an amazingly knowledgeable species .
the family that was scared of his life took off all the guns and all the tools .
i &apos;m going to try this through an example .
you know , everybody &apos;s already eaten cake .
oversight : now i &apos;m kind of interacting with the object , can zoom out , zoom in .
i get the whole overview , now i can filter on this , and i can say , just show me all the chocolate stuff .
and all of a sudden , you have an interface that &apos;s much more intuitive and much more natural .
because i can grab things like the bits , and they come up to me is much more natural than when they &apos;re hierarchically organized websites or other mechanisms , in a sense , can make these things accessible .
imagination is more important than knowledge , and with that sentence , i &apos;d like to close , a and again , to give the clue , designers have to think differently to come up with new solutions , and in that sense , i thank you very much for your attention and request .
i want to give you a very specific aspect of curiosity .
the first one , when you get big as a child , as a baby , is that you care about what kind of divorces you have , right ? and depending on whether your parents have allowed you to play and play more or less in the pottery , the more , as you say , your curiosity , of course , is wobbled .
and curiosity can &apos;t learn .
now you have to know that the inuit is not afraid of the cold . they used it to their advantage .
that &apos;s why all of them who are here and are curious , in fact , people who have a property that you can &apos;t learn .
i &apos;m going to talk about basically this whole environmental discussion , global demise , 40 years of club-of-rome , in quality .
and there &apos;s a central point .
and it depends on phosphorus .
give pee a chance .
every day , you give plus-scale about two grams of phosphorus , and every day you have to take two grams of phosphorus .
otherwise you can &apos;t have teeth .
they can &apos;t store energy .
you can &apos;t have bones .
we could only glide as an amorphous mollusk through the world &apos;s ocean .
the tracks of their sled were originally made from fish that were wrapped in caribbean skin .
in fact , if we don &apos;t take a phosphorus and give it up .
and what &apos;s amazing is that we &apos;re looking at something that &apos;s actually a little bit of self-understanding , but it &apos;s not like that .
because everybody &apos;s talking about energy , but nobody &apos;s talking about the phosphorus problem .
the phosphorus problem is much more critical .
we depend on two countries .
we only have two years of phosphorus , and already , by building phosphorus mining around the world , we &apos;ve brought a lot more uranium into the environment than we use in all the nuclear facilities .
in the last 20 years alone , fifteen thousand tons of uranium has been distributed to our fields in germany .
and that &apos;s what we &apos;re recording .
it makes leukemia in children .
and we think we would protect the environment if we &apos;re a little less harmful .
the man &apos;s grandfather was not afraid of the arctic night or the blowing storm .
so , for example , protect the environment , drive less cars .
protect the environment , make less waste .
protect the environment , consume less energy .
but that &apos;s not a protection .
that &apos;s like , if i said , you know , shake your child , just beat it three times instead of five times .
that &apos;s just a little less destruction .
if we think about it from the weighs to the bathing , then our whole earth will become a cemetery sooner or later .
so just thinking about the weighs to the weighs .
and the most important thing is to look at the ground , first of all .
in the ground , over six percent of the carbon is stored .
he hatched out , he put his pants down from the sea , and he defecated in his hand , and when the feces started to freeze , he shaped them into the form of a knife .
at the moment , we &apos;re building corn and losing between 11 and 30 kilograms of 30 tons per hectare , or the square meter .
that is , we lose about five thousand times more in the ground than we are reformed .
we can , of course , look at the waste problem first .
and everything is packaging or content .
in openbach , for example , the garbage of the garbage is 20 percent of the waste now .
and as we get older , the diapers get bigger .
that &apos;s kind of all of them in the forewind phase .
yeah ?
a baby needs about six thousand diapers .
we could , of course , reduce that by 10 percent , but what does that do ?
he sprayed saliva on the sides of the fecal measurement , and when it was frozen , he amazes a dog with it .
this is balanced in china in a second .
this is completely trivial .
so the question is , how do we deal with these diapers ?
this is a proof , by the way , that men are not pigs .
i want to tell you .
because the phosphorus is given in the pigs over the solid ingredients .
the people over the urine .
yeah .
so men can &apos;t be pigs with that .
because that &apos;s what &apos;s going on , right ?
he contained the dog and improvised a dish , took the dog &apos;s skeleton and improvised a sled , put a different dog in there , and then switched over the ice cutter with the fecal knife on the belt .
traditionally , we think in the environmental debate , we &apos;re too many in the world .
and if you tell the people who are talking to the people , if you say that would be better , you wouldn &apos;t be there , they &apos;ll be subtle and hostile .
and so someone like al gore , one of our great heroes , there &apos;s nothing more important than stabilizing the human population .
in israel , they say , if you save a human life , you save the earth .
here it says , the more you kill , the better .
yeah .
the first question is , are we really too many ?
if you look at the ants , the weight of the ants on earth , the ants weigh about four times more than we humans .
i could also take termites , but in the united states , no one likes termites in that far , even though they &apos;re vegetarians .
that means the ants weigh much more than we do .
so you can do something out of nothing .
and because they work much harder physically than we do , and because they only live three to six months , they &apos;re equivalent to their weight , in their energy consumption , a little bit of 30 billion people .
that means we &apos;re not too many , we &apos;re too stupid , right ?
and where you can see how far away we are from what we really wanted to do and what we really wanted to do , and how sad we are , that we are on earth at all , you can see that , for example , openbach has a program to 20 , you want to be here , climate-eutral , right ?
you can only be climaneutral if you don &apos;t exist , right ?
the only chance .
have you ever seen a climate-neutral tree ?
yeah ?
one ?
that means all of our intelligence means that we want to be dummer than trees , right ?
yeah ?
and this , in many ways , is a symbol of the resistance of the inuit and all the indigenous people in the world .
no tree is carbon neutral .
luckily not , right ?
there &apos;s no overpopulation problem with trees .
there are still six billion trees in the amazon area alone .
you &apos;ve heard about some of the overpopulation problems of trees ?
that means all of our intelligence means that we want to be dummer than trees .
and where you see , even in something like demeter , the most strict bio-agriculture , it doesn &apos;t allow our own metabolism products to go back .
we lose three million tons of phosphorus every year that really had to go back in circles .
and that &apos;s too many of us .
it &apos;s on its own .
the canadian government gave the inuit in april 1999 the complete control over an area greater than california and texas combined .
that means we feel so guilty about the earth that we say , there &apos;s no bio-farming , there &apos;s no bioland , there &apos;s no natural progression , and as they all say , that allow our own excrement to go back .
isn &apos;t that sad ?
that &apos;s too many of us .
it makes sense to be less harmful in terms of oil consumption .
but where are we useful ?
we &apos;re trying to minimize our ecological footprint , but it &apos;s about having a big footprint that &apos;s useful .
we want to be good for society , we want to be good for the economy , but when it comes to the environment , the highest thing is not to be there , right ?
nullemissions , yes ?
you can only have nullemissions if you &apos;re not there .
even if you were to shoot yourself now , you would have emissions .
and just as the biosphere has been rejected a lot , this happened to the ethnosphere -- just at even greater speed .
it &apos;s our new homeland , and it &apos;s called nunavut .
so you can &apos;t solve that .
we can do it differently .
we can regain our nutrients .
we do agriculture in brazil where we regain the nutrients .
right now , we can get nutrients back in this way in agriculture .
we do this in china , for example , where we take the waste from it directly .
in china , a night sky today is called a honeybee pot , so to speak , right ?
and in our western world , we &apos;ve always been too stupid to bring our nutrients back .
that is , the whole western civilizational story is that the city has always taken over , but has never given back to the farmers .
so cities had to grow more and more because the farmers went to the cities , and the cities had to continue to get their nutrients .
it &apos;s an independent area . they all control minerals .
that &apos;s why all the western kingdoms are always expanded until they haven &apos;t done the infrastructure , and then they &apos;re imploded .
yeah ?
in china , it was different .
you have made civilization over five thousand years , because you &apos;ve always been able to bring the nutrients back .
even today , if you &apos;re invited to eat in china , you &apos;re expecting for the food that they stay until they pick up the toilet .
because it &apos;s unfriendly to go and take the nutrients .
they &apos;ve been invited to eat them , not for nutrient theft .
that is , you can see on the internet how to get the nutrients back .
the fact is , if you do that , which is to do agriculture , to make biogas , on a hectare of five thousand people in favelas , you can make a farmer about a thousand and a hundred dollars , and the plant is waiting , chickens and pig and pig and ducks and vegetables and fish .
and the great thing about this is that the crime rate in the favelas goes down by over ninety percent .
an amazing example , like a nation , a state that can seek and achieve recovery with its inhabitants .
so we don &apos;t have to control people , to be little bad .
we can support them to be good .
this is , of course , high-tech agriculture , but the plants carry themselves .
the byproduct is clean water .
and they &apos;re designed like this , by the design that a farmer can just farm them .
that is , the crime rates go back .
and none of these facilities , we &apos;ve now built over 100 to 50 in the last 20 years , none of these facilities have ever been sabotted .
you could just throw in a liter of altitude , and then the facility would be ruined over years .
don &apos;t happen .
that means we don &apos;t have to control people , to be little bad .
and finally , i think it &apos;s pretty obvious , at least for those of us who have traveled to these distant goals of the earth to realize that they have not been removed at all .
we can support them to be good .
that means we have to get phosphorus back .
and by the way , if you want to do what you want to do , write down , in germany , the best way to enlighten all the sewage is in frankfurt .
unfortunately , they &apos;re not in openbach , but maybe they can help the france guys a little bit .
because the france facility could best regain the phosphorus .
and it has to go back .
we see that phosphorus is really critical .
and we see that it &apos;s going through .
we &apos;ve been in holland now over three years .
the dutch government has explained that they will be the first country in the world to reclaim phosphorus .
they &apos;re the homeland of someone .
but we need that in total .
you know , there are two countries that control almost 70 percent of the world &apos;s phosphorus incidents .
opec is a bunch of orphanages .
that &apos;s six and a half countries that control 40 percent of the oil supplies .
and we &apos;re going to be able to replace the oil with other energy supplies .
but you won &apos;t be able to replace the phosphorus .
it &apos;s not about making the existing one a little bit less bad , but it &apos;s about making something right .
and most of all , to ask what the right thing is .
that means it &apos;s about efficiency , not about efficiency .
in holland , of course , it &apos;s easier to understand , because in holland , the country is built on flowers .
they represent parts of the human imagination that go back in the past times , and for all of us , the dreams of these children , like the dreams of our own children , become part of the geography of hope .
yeah ?
imagine , for example , if your wife is sad , if you &apos;ve upset her , and you come with 50 roses .
completely inefficient .
but it &apos;s very effective , right ?
or take a lip pen .
a woman in germany eats about six comma of three kilograms in her lifetime .
there it is .
it &apos;s not that scientifically correct , because we don &apos;t know how much kissing is being kissed away .
but a lip pen , even in this illumination , i can tell you , is completely inefficient , but really effective , right ?
one of the things that &apos;s beautiful about life is not efficient .
what we &apos;re trying to do at national geographic is we believe that politicians never do anything .
that &apos;s why not resource efficiency , but efficiency .
asking , what is the right thing to do ?
not to burn the sewage a little bit better , and recharge it , and in the burn facility , to lose all the materials for cycles , but to ask , first , how do you close the cycles ?
imagine mozart efficiently .
yeah ?
when i invite them to dinner and say , yes , there &apos;s a pill of open taste and a glass of water .
wonderful , &apos; ne ?
that &apos;s efficient .
all that &apos;s beautiful in life is not efficient .
if you fall in love with somebody , efficiently ?
we believe that polemics -- we believe that polemics is not persuasive , but we believe that storytelling can change the world , and so we &apos;re probably the best institution for storytelling in the world . our website gets 35 million hits every month .
yeah ?
that is , all that matters in life is not about saving , avoiding , reducing .
the whole environmental discussion .
we tell people , oh , you don &apos;t have an environmental awareness in the south .
no , throwing it away is just the right thing , right ?
every place you throw away , from , yes , you create life opportunities again .
but the wrong things .
if you throw away the wrong things , you have a waste problem .
in the way we think of north .
there , every footprint is disadvantageous .
156 nations send our tv channel .
if you walk , yes , every footprint destroys the ground .
because the soil is going to die off , and the wind and the water is going to wash away the ground .
but if you &apos;re in italy , every footprint means that the water stays in the meadow longer .
so , it &apos;s about creating a big footprint that becomes a wetlands .
not guilt management .
we say sustainability in germany .
yeah ?
but if i ask you , how do you do with your wife ?
so what do you say ?
sustainable .
our magazines are read by millions .
and then i say , well , sorry , right ?
that &apos;s the minimum .
so not saving , dispensing , avoiding .
every waste is nutrient .
and it &apos;s a lust when you see it in italy , like the people in the high arc are shooting out coke can out of the car .
because , you know , that &apos;s a fun thing to do .
it &apos;s a shape of refour-behavior , right ?
you can show , i was there .
but with the right design , please .
for example , we &apos;ve developed an ice cream package that &apos;s at room temperature .
no biologist , for example , would say that 50 percent or more of all species are just about to extinct , because it &apos;s just not true . and yet , this -- the most apocalyptic scenario in the field of biodiversity -- is hardly true of what we know as the most optimistic case in the field of cultural diversity .
and we are taking a series of voyages to the ethnosphere where we take our audience to places of such cultural wonder that they are blinded by the seen , and hopefully , one by one , you will take on the central revelation of anthropology : that this world deserves to exist in different ways that we can find a way of living in a really multicultural pluralistic world , where the wisdom of all people can contribute to our common well-being .
they can throw them away where they go and stand .
in two hours , it &apos;s degrading everywhere .
and it contains seeds of rare plants so that they can throw away to biodiversity .
that means we &apos;re useful , not less harmful .
so there are two cycles .
it &apos;s not all to be composable , of course .
a tv set or a washing machine that you just use , you don &apos;t use it .
just the things that shine , like shoe , like brakes , like cars , that have to be so that they go into biological systems .
the things that are only used are going into technical systems .
but today we &apos;re just talking about the biological systems .
thank you .
yeah ?
for example , the sneaker , right ?
very direct advertising , not for the puma per se company , but for the fact that they &apos;re now helping this company make these products successful .
because we don &apos;t make things free anymore .
yeah ?
so , if i invite you to eat and say , this is free of chicken , it doesn &apos;t help you .
no , we determine what &apos;s inside .
positive .
so not like detox .
not toxic in there .
what i &apos;m going to show you , as quickly as possible , is the basic work , a new technology that we &apos;ve given microsoft as part of a year ago , and this is seadragon , and it &apos;s an environment where you can either locally or remove with huge amounts of visual data .
it &apos;s all that &apos;s in it that &apos;s useful .
these are the first shoes that you can put the cavalry launch on the pedestrian light , and the rubber can go into biological cycles , right ?
all of them are composable .
and of course , when we do it , we do it for adidas , for nike , for hennes and mauritz and all the textile industry .
and that &apos;s half the world &apos;s wastewater problems that are caused by the textile industry .
that &apos;s why you help with this , ask people .
hey , puma , are you really serious ?
because they have changed the board twice .
and i &apos;m not so sure they &apos;re really staying there .
so , help me with that a little bit .
we see many , many gigabytes of digital photographs here that you can take seamlessly and continuously , dive , rearrange in any way .
but here we go .
yeah .
what &apos;s just been shown .
there we go .
we can do things now so that if they break , when they break , they can go into biological cycles .
we have the same technical cycles .
there &apos;s a direct back name system for this .
this is the first ecological backpack , actually , that &apos;s made to go back to the circuit .
again , so in every store , you can get things back .
when you get to that , right ?
and it doesn &apos;t matter how much information we look at , how big these collections are or how big the images are .
do you remember the windle again ?
if it &apos;s currently the waste .
all over the place , these diapers are located , almost .
in the countries where people come from .
it &apos;s up on the deponies , but also in the landscape , right ?
if we change the plastics so that it can go into biological systems , if we change the water storage , inside , that they can go back to cellulosic base , they can plant hundreds of fifty trees with a baby in israel , or in tunisia .
yeah ?
just if you take these angles , you crush them , you sterilize them , and you take the powder to plant trees .
so the baby is carbon positive for the whole life , from the beginning .
so , we don &apos;t need to be climate , we can be climate positive .
most of you are digital photographs of a camera , but this is , for example , a scan of the library of congress , and it &apos;s in a range of 300 megapixes .
it &apos;s kind of a behavioral poop print .
yeah , sort of .
yeah ?
we can do that .
we can reinvent everything again .
i started an institute to do this .
there &apos;s a lot of people working there , and they can all be engaged .
there &apos;s an extra club to it , cradle to cradle , where everyone can join .
so not saving , eliminating , avoiding , not reducing , not reducing debt management , but intelligent waste .
does that make you curious ?
it doesn &apos;t matter , because the only thing that can confine the performance of a system like this is the number of pixels on your screen at any moment . it also has a very flexible architecture .
thank you .
the work of the interpreter .
music as a language .
in the description of my talk , it &apos;s written that i , as an interpreter , as a translator , which is in the english sense , i understand .
interpreters are translators of the written notes in clinical music .
that , as a translator , you don &apos;t just have to translate the word &quot; text &quot; into a different language , but also understand the deeper sense of words and wortzusammenhang , so that it makes a meaningful translation , anyone who has to do with foreign languages .
even translating from german into english can require more knowledge , once it comes to poetry or even poetry .
but it &apos;s alien to laymen what we do to musicians with our music language .
as an interpreter of a piece of music , i have only the written notes .
you think that the composer in the notes has written everything that he imagined .
this is a whole book , an example of non-image data .
in fact , the notes are very vague and inaccurate .
these notes are about as accurate or inaccurate as a verbal , even though very seemingly penile , description of a landscape .
because in this verbal description of landscape , the fragrance of flowers is not to smell , to only experience the degree of the green , not to listen to the seaweed of the wind , not to feel .
that is , the interpret has to translate these inexact angles of the emergency language into another , namely audible , concrete , nonverbal music language .
today , i want to take you through what i use to translate musically , which is interpreting , again , into a verbal language .
so basically , a translation of translation .
so i prefer to do it in german , because if i had to translate it again into english , it would be equivalent to me translation of the translation of the translation .
so the music , for me , works as much as the spoken language .
the noted notes have the function of the letters of a script .
so it &apos;s not enough to just learn to read notes , and to press the keyboards on the piano or the right place on a violin string .
this is bleak house of dickens . each column is a chapter .
because that would be just the letters that you learned to paint .
you don &apos;t see the meaning of letters until you can make the language .
so for the learning process of music , you need at least as long as the spoken language .
now , there are some retrieval steps , whether you learn to use it , just understand it passively , or you can talk actively , to the musical mother &apos;s linguistic .
the work of the interpreter starts very much like a theater director .
after you first choose to play a piece , because you &apos;re excited about it , you &apos;re looking for the backgrounds of composition .
you collect information about the piece in the secondary literature .
you read in the letters , journals , notes , or whether there are words , thoughts of the composer itself .
you study the works that he composed before and after .
you hire comparison .
to prove that it &apos;s really a text and not a picture , we can do something like this to really show that this is a real representation of texting and not a picture .
the motions of writing it .
how and how did he feel ?
what were its circumstances , like society and politics ?
i &apos;m interested in all of this .
you think of yourself in that time by , for example , looking at contemporary images or reading literature .
but over time , you also have a rich knowledge as an interpreter to play the composer that you play more often , and it always makes you easier to think and feel in it .
the composer is becoming more and more of a friend that you live with .
his cause to write the piece becomes more and more about my personal cause to play it .
now that the notes are anything but an accurate record of the subject of the composer , but only a scaffolding , i &apos;m now applying this framework to restore it with meaning and meaning .
i then say , with my own words , what might be written between this framework .
and the key indicator of that is the extinction of languages .
maybe this is an artificial way of reading an e-book .
i play explaining what these sounds might have to mean .
now , for me and for the composer back then , and what they might mean for him today .
every tone , every phrase , gets a sense of it , because i feel it myself , because it comes out of my now , personally , from my life .
it has to be true for me in the here and now , otherwise i can &apos;t convince my audience that this is my cause .
it &apos;s a very happy concert over and over again , if i can have the experience , the piece that i &apos;ve been working in advance for as long as i &apos;ve been revising .
how to relive a happy new day , even though with the same rituals of life , breakfast , go to work , i do the same thing over and over again .
i went back to a day of age that changes seasons , my pulse goes slower than in the morning , in a concert hall it takes longer for the sound to come back home than it does at home .
i see the breathing of the audience , consciously or unconsciously .
all of this affects me and all of this also affects my composition experience .
and what &apos;s wonderful is , when i stand on the stage with a duo partner , and we have the same wavelength .
i wouldn &apos;t recommend it .
and then the same thing happens in a good , friendly conversation .
you bring in a new idea , and in the same time it &apos;s answered with a reaction .
it &apos;s exciting , because then things that we haven &apos;t tried to do and what you can &apos;t sample .
it &apos;s a lot of fun to make music this way , and you as the audience have experienced how music communicates alive .
so every concert is a different concert .
i will never play the same way that i do at that moment .
i can &apos;t play the same way that i do in 20 years today .
i &apos;m going to have more life experience than today , and therefore , on my palette of music , i &apos;m going to have much more color nuances , more emotions and emotions than i am today .
sure , i &apos;m going to have some color pots thrown out , but i &apos;m going to get new ones .
have a nice concrete example of this .
this is a more realistic case . this is a copy of the guardian .
it was on a piano course for music students in my beloved old teacher , professor jelt ude , a famous beethoven specialist , concert pianist and longevity professor of music college here in stuttart .
unfortunately , i was too young , so he was already emerged when i finally started studying .
but i was very lucky to meet him very early , at age three , and so i was already on his classes at my school .
i was 17 years old when i went back to one of his classes , and i played the last of the four ballads of chopin , a late work .
he asked me what was the introduction of this ballad for me .
this is such a comprehensive part .
and in my adolescence , i said , expectation .
and he was screaming , and he was like , you know ?
that has to be the difference in aging .
because for me , it means memory .
every big picture is the beginning of a section .
he was already over sixty .
well , at the age of 17 , you still have dreams , but you don &apos;t have important memories .
i &apos;m playing the piece every few years today , and it &apos;s changed for me , even though not a single note has changed .
every time it &apos;s exciting , because over and over again , i read something new .
one example of this from a very different area . monet has painted the seerose x times .
it &apos;s always the same garden , but at different times of day , in different light .
he translated the seroses in a different way , as he saw them , as they did in that moment .
his personal impressions of the seerose .
the x-ray interpretation of a piece is comparable to that .
in the meantime , i &apos;m older than chopin with two and a half years old when he wrote the piece .
and that really gives you the pleasure and the good experience of reading a real paper copy of a magazine or a newspaper , which is a kind of multi-scale medium .
he just lived for 30 years .
and it &apos;s important to me to look back in the notes , even though i mean to be able to memorize them .
to keep twin practices , right with the composer .
because the notes are the only connection directly to him .
most of all , if he &apos;s died .
now , how do you start talking about the language of music ?
i said yes , it takes about as long as spoken language .
often , the music class is that you learn to read the notes .
you &apos;re basically learning to read first before you just talk a word .
you learn to find the sounds to the notes on the instrument .
we also did something in the corner of this particular copy of the guardian .
and then when all the fingers are in time and right , as it is in the notes , the sounds come out that sound like music together .
when this is error , the student gets the next difficult piece .
and interpretation is barely spoken in the beginning class .
all right , there &apos;s a presto on the front , that &apos;s a quick piece .
lento , slowly .
loud and glory , f and b , etc .
that &apos;s what most of you know .
but even if you put these things on , it still remains just a little bit technical .
and it &apos;s still not an interpretation .
i wonder .
we designed a false ad with very high resolution , which is much higher than a normal display , and we added more content .
i wonder that you often forget something very fundamental .
and that is that to make music on the instrument , your own musical doing and feeling should be there before .
that is singing .
a child who didn &apos;t learn to sing , because they didn &apos;t pretend to do it by themselves .
this is like talking learning .
it &apos;s necessary to have its own experiences and ideas of music , and then to get it over another possibility , which is to make it sound .
people who &apos;ve never singed have never felt instantly with their own body , as it is , to form a sound .
designing a phrase with his own breath .
because the musical instrument is the extension of our body .
our vocal chords to sing , our hands and our feet to dance .
if you want to see the functions of this car , you can see them here .
so the hammer heads in the piano are the sequel of my fingers .
the melody comes from the healthy and the rhythm from the dance .
the continuous coverage of music today is not promoting .
you don &apos;t need to make music anymore when you get bored .
it &apos;s not necessary to whistle or sing a song .
each of your own music is made when you &apos;re constantly sucked by the outside with music .
sure , there are some of you who say , yes , but what do you do when i can &apos;t sing ?
i ask the question , can &apos;t you sing , a , because you think you can &apos;t sing ?
or b , because they haven &apos;t learned to sing ?
both of them , it &apos;s not too late to start to find out if they can &apos;t , or learn how to use these little muscles that make the vocal bands right .
or other models , or even technical specifications .
because you can train that .
or c , because they &apos;ve been complained that they &apos;re intractable .
and i ask , how peculiar was this diagnosis ?
have you got a second or third opinion about how to say it beautifully today ?
or d , you don &apos;t like music , and therefore you want to have nix to do with it .
but what i would regret , because music is a beautiful , communicative thing .
but maybe you can reconcile them .
well , you see , in all cases , no one has to be an outsighted candidate .
but please don &apos;t say , i don &apos;t understand anything about classical music .
i can &apos;t tell if it &apos;s good or bad .
and this really captures these ideas to create these constraints for the available place on the screen .
and i say that , but i &apos;m sure you can tell if you like it or not .
because i don &apos;t think somebody says , i don &apos;t know if i like it because i can &apos;t cook .
so , they don &apos;t get rid of food , just because they can &apos;t cook .
so you don &apos;t have to get rid of classical music , because you don &apos;t play an instrument .
listen consciously and say whether it tastes to you or not .
whether the music is too whistled or too sweet .
tell you what you feel .
over time , they also get claims , and they want to have some more spices there , or even taste fine differences .
now , why do i ask my audience to listen to it actively ?
because the music is a language , and a language is there to communicate .
when each of you was born in this room , 6,000 languages were spoken on earth .
we hope that this doesn &apos;t mean pop-ups and other nonsense anymore -- it shouldn &apos;t be necessary .
an artwork you never look at has no power to work .
the food that &apos;s been cooked by a chef or a chef that has to be eaten and not just looked at recipes or traded .
so please listen when a music is played .
it &apos;s not just a nice soundscape .
if in an environment where adults make music , or at least hear active music , a child grows up , it &apos;s very easy for a music teacher to ask , what color is your flower ?
can you also play them in blue ?
and the child is playing , after a memorial , instead of a red now , a blue flower .
and this sounds very different from before .
that was the very first beginning of a single musical expression .
so the first step to an interpretation .
of course , mapping is one of the really obvious applications for a technology like this .
and what happens when you play a piece today that was originally written a hundred , two hundred or three hundred years ago ?
meanwhile , the instruments have been evolving .
there was no piano in bachs at the moment as an instrument .
it just wasn &apos;t invented yet .
i think the stream would have been thrilled if he had the sonic possibilities of today &apos;s modern piano .
i can make the sound that the stream has had on the modern wing , which a baroque cembalo can &apos;t sound .
you know , beethoven also knows that he heard more than he had become deaf .
today , a modern orchestra is able to play anything that an orchestra has rejected from that time as unplayable .
so the composers depend on us interpreters that reinvent the pieces .
so that you will be able to hear what you &apos;ve only imagined in the mind .
and i really don &apos;t want to spend a lot of time here , except to say that we &apos;re also going to contribute to this area .
and also , what you would think today in the mind .
or what i imagine today , because what you might have thought .
thank you .
do you know what &apos;s going on ?
have you ever been envy ?
and how did that feel ?
shit .
i have a friend who drives a passerati .
and then when i come , with my little v w piesel and i get it wrong , that feeling comes up .
i &apos;m shooting something through my head .
but these are all the streets in the u.s. .
i say , ulf , what &apos;s the big car for ?
that &apos;s what &apos;s going to lose half of its value in the first year .
and at all , you work much less than me .
why do i have to afford a little car like this ?
and then i come to mind immediately , which is unfair .
it &apos;s against justice .
and as i say the word justice , this unpleasant feeling is gone .
our organism has invented a great way of making such uncomfortable feelings as neither way to disappear .
you can also try this with words like revenge or winning or something like that .
i want to explain to you today about this mechanism or something that is unconsciously familiar with you .
so , overlap at the top of the arousal picture of nasa .
the mechanism comes from the lie .
but don &apos;t think about the lie , as you may have heard , when people say , no one has the intention of building a wall .
and then it turns stones up so it locks your eyes .
on a lie like this , you can see that the liar itself doesn &apos;t believe what he says .
it &apos;s easy to test that it &apos;s very different in mind .
he just deceives you and not himself .
no , the lie i &apos;m talking about , which has to do with deceiving itself .
you need this lie to keep a lie of life to sustain a self-deception .
they can make them less easy , yes , check , or bring them down .
they need time .
let &apos;s get something else out now .
this time , an anecdote that you may know .
the spanish painter pablo picasso once portrayed a woman .
this woman then complained , the portrait would not look like her .
picasso replies , just wait .
they &apos;re getting more and more similar .
at this point , and when you laugh , you realize how important this lie is and how much time you need to experience something that artists can tell us very well .
because artists have a disrupted relationship with lying .
the artist is sharing with you something , and especially this lady , which she doesn &apos;t see when she just looks in the mirror .
the artist gives you something in a portrait like this that you will only be familiar with when you look at this piece of art over and over again .
and then this unpleasant feeling disappears , because it couldn &apos;t look like you , and it &apos;s getting more and more like you .
this is now live on the internet . you can check it .
here you have this mechanism that allows us to use the lie as a great invention to stabilize our lifespan .
and it &apos;s not just in art , it &apos;s in the folk , where in the mythology , it &apos;s coming back in stories .
you may know this idea of the lady who looked in the mirror every morning and asked him , who is the most beautiful thing in the entire country ?
one day , this mirror says , yes , there &apos;s a more beautiful one .
behind the seven mountains and so on .
and you also know how much hostility comes from this true origin , also mirrors can &apos;t lie , from this true origin .
but we should just be familiar with the fact that you can &apos;t tell a woman that there &apos;s a more beautiful one somewhere else .
here &apos;s what we need to do under politically correctness , again and again .
we need this lie at this point that keeps us up without the deception that we can &apos;t live on .
we have not only in art , in folk poetry , but also in science , such great lies .
this is a project called photosynth that really connects two different technologies .
and there &apos;s this story about the woman of the bischof of worchester .
she heard about this book by charles darwin , the origin of species and human descent .
that the man should come from the monkey , and , yes , there would be at least a common ancestor between humans and monkeys .
and then she ran to her husband and said , well , that &apos;s probably not what charles wrote .
the man is supposed to come from the monkey or have a common ancestor .
no , no , it can &apos;t .
and if it &apos;s true , then we have to prevent people from knowing it .
why do we have to prevent people from knowing something when it &apos;s true ?
because without that lifespan , we can &apos;t live .
because we have this self-deception , this sense of being great , descending from the highest creatures , not from such a natural level , of something as unpredictable as an organism that still exists , a stone comparable , and other things , that &apos;s unsustainable to us .
one is seadragon , and the other is a very good research on computer vision , which is from noah snavely , a university student at washington , under the counseling of steve seitz at uw .
so , we can &apos;t do these things .
we need to prevent people from knowing things , especially when they &apos;re true .
so you can see how slowly this mechanism is resolving and what the traces that it leaves behind , that lead to something other than this magnificent image of ourselves , i want to bring you to another story .
a particularly beautiful story , i mean .
my wife told me .
she came from school one day , she &apos;s a teacher , and she told a student .
an autistic student .
she likes him especially because he has a tendency to be honest .
and she asked him , what are your hobbies ?
and he says , well , i &apos;m in the fire department .
and rick szeliski was done by microsoft research , a very good collaboration .
and because i &apos;m in the fire department , i &apos;m interested in pyrotechnical things .
yes , you feel it when you &apos;re healthier at this point . there &apos;s something wrong with it .
i told my wife , whenever a human being in a moral judgment is using the word because , we should try to replace it with the word even though .
do that once , and then you learn the sentence .
even though i &apos;m in the fire department , i &apos;m interested in pyrotechnical things .
you feel , that &apos;s the real truth behind the origin .
this is a little bub that &apos;s not interested in the fire .
he &apos;s interested in firemaking .
but there are no clubs that we can look for , where you learn how to make fire .
there &apos;s only the second best , the fire department .
now a language is not just the sum of the vocabulary or a series of grammar loans .
so this is live on the internet . it &apos;s driven by seadragon .
he signed up .
and you don &apos;t say to your teacher , you don &apos;t like to put bridges somewhere , and you &apos;re happy when the fire is going up afterwards .
no , it just looks a lot better if we show that we &apos;re in charge of eliminating the dangers that others create when they lay fire .
here you have this little mechanism .
this is a reference to the fact that at the heart of the bub , he already knew that he was actually related to the fire , but that he can &apos;t say that out loud .
here you have this censorship between the unconscious and the conscious that jumps right away , without you being able to do something about it , and the things that you know look very different , designed to sound much better for you and others .
so it &apos;s just the words that we use over and over again in the language of the politically correct speech .
in fact , we know that something else is the case .
but we know , when we say that , the social relations are very sensitive .
we can &apos;t just do that .
you can see this when we create these kinds of views where we can penetrate through images and make this experience of multifold resolution .
it &apos;s impossible to present things like this in a society that &apos;s supposed to work .
so i want to show you what we found in my institute .
what the logic of this deception , this self-deception , the willingness , a different reality than the ones that we actually know in the unconscious mind that it &apos;s valid to spread outward .
i want to give you two , maybe three , examples .
the first example assumes what many of you know and some of you appreciate , very few of you don &apos;t need at all .
i mean the soul .
what is the soul ?
the soul is something like this , says , &quot; leibniz . &quot;
it &apos;s something that &apos;s not gavage , material nature .
and if you have people in front of you who have the strong belief that they have a soul , or you can also say , who believe that they &apos;ve been brought from the soul to life , then they think it &apos;s kind of like the soul is such a spiritual framework about them , not from matter , they &apos;re just made of meat and blood , something stone , to the earth that &apos;s built , deplorable , decompatible , unimportant , dead .
but the spatial order of the images is actually important here .
and what you &apos;re thinking about is this soul , which is that it &apos;s kind of present in this cloudy nature , in this magnificent nature , anima , it &apos;s called the latin , the air tune .
and then , when that air hall poured over people , it &apos;s filled with dignity , with spirit , with nature that can only live , with soul .
and then he can walk away .
that &apos;s the idea of how the soul works .
so it &apos;s supposed to come from the outside to the human .
so we need to think of them as something that is supposed to be present for our lives .
and if you have this assumption in front of you , you understand the logic with which we experience this happiness by a lie to improve our world .
because now you can apply a three-sentence .
three , you still know from school .
now this is a triple that describes us a logic .
the computer vision algorithms have stuck these pictures together so that they can match the real space in which these images that were all taken close to the grassi lakes in the canadian rockies , and they see elements of stabilized slides or panoramic imaging , and these things were all spatial in relation to each other .
this is the hardest part of my talk , by the way .
here you need some logic , but also the willingness to lie .
because to lie like this , you can just apply this logic wrong .
there are three sentences in this triple .
the first sentence is , klaus claims there &apos;s no soul .
so the second sentence is , if sound is right , it has no soul .
now there &apos;s a third sentence .
i &apos;ve highlighted it in particular here .
a third sentence that appears immediately in people who have a strong sense of a soul .
they say who doesn &apos;t have a soul , who &apos;s dead and can &apos;t say anything .
i don &apos;t know if i have time to show you other environments .
and this is where you feel it .
here comes this logic in this , yes , in this deceptive talk .
you see it immediately .
the first two sentences , they &apos;re logically correct .
i can say anything .
the logic doesn &apos;t make a point about reality .
i can say the channel is a man .
and if i &apos;m right , the channel is a man .
if i &apos;m not right , the channel is not a man .
the logic doesn &apos;t make a point about what &apos;s going on .
there are some that are much more spatial .
i can say everything .
but the key thing is , if i &apos;m right , it &apos;s true .
so when klaus says there &apos;s no soul .
second , if he &apos;s right , he doesn &apos;t have a soul .
these things are logically correct .
and now our deceiving consciousness immediately , you can do something with it .
it depends on a third sentence that has nothing to do with the first two sentences and pretends that the opposite of the first sentence is already proven and assured .
because , in fact , we have to prove whether or not there is the soul .
but with this logic , which simply uses it , that two sentences are logically correct , and a third one that looks like it has something to do with it , so we can save our livelihoods .
so , we pretend that it &apos;s actually impossible without being able to live a soul .
i &apos;d like to just show you one of the original data sets of noah , and this is from an early prototype of photosynth that we &apos;ve been working on in the summer to show you what i think is really the punchline behind this technology , photosynthetic technology , and this is not necessarily so obvious when you look at the environments that we have on the website .
and we &apos;re very happy about it .
we can continue to do these things in different examples .
in the present , for example , we have a very modern example that keeps filling the daytime newspapers .
you have to have another philosophical theme , a permanent burner from philosophy , present .
this has to do with the fact that we go back to the fourteenth century .
there was a scholar named johannes buridanus , and after that , the buridanese esel is named .
the buridanese esel is an esel made of pure nature .
it doesn &apos;t have that soul .
this is a natural thing .
and if you place the exact one in the middle between two equal hairs , it &apos;s hungry .
we had to worry about the lawyer and so on .
because he doesn &apos;t know what haystack to go to first .
so it &apos;s right in the middle .
this is how nature is presented .
simultaneous powers with counter-performing signs dissolve each other .
there &apos;s nothing going on at all .
it &apos;s only when you get another example , so if she &apos;s going to make a haystack bigger , he doesn &apos;t need a reason , and he doesn &apos;t need anything .
he automatically walks to the right thought .
so if you have this idea that you &apos;re sort of driven in nature , determined by the larger pile that &apos;s going to attract you immediately , you also have the sense that there must be something like a free will .
and if we &apos;re already here in frankfurt on the main , i remember the max planck institute for brain research .
there &apos;s a scholar called wolf singer , and you sometimes say wolf singer , there &apos;s no freedom of will .
this is a reconstruction of the cathedame notre dame , who just happened in the computer with images of flickr , just give notre dame in flickr , and they &apos;ll get images of men in t-shirts and on the university camps and so on . each of these orange cone represents a picture that was discovered as a listener to this model .
now we can create the second sentence again , and say , if wolf is right , he has no freedom of will .
these sentences are absolutely logical and correct .
and what we can read in the daily newspaper , almost every day , is that you find in this third sentence .
it looks something like who has no freedom of will , can &apos;t be drawn to its actions and claims of responsibility , and therefore it &apos;s inadequate .
again , you have it again .
in fact , you have to first prove whether there &apos;s such a thing as freedom of freedom .
but the logic of deception allows us to pretend that the first sentence of before is wrong , as if , of course , you have to take the opposite without proof .
and now you can just , if you want to do anything yourself , if you want to test anything and , above all , if you want to make people happy , practice that courage to lie .
practice that , for example , if you meet a person who you can say , there are no predictors .
and please don &apos;t use the german word for predictors , which is prophet .
so these are all flickr pictures , and they &apos;re all in the same way in relation to each other .
you can &apos;t call that , that would be a little bit of a political correct again .
you say there are no predictors .
immediately , they &apos;re going to experience , of course , one for which there are predictors , you can &apos;t prove that .
and they already have a problem .
because while you &apos;re busy trying to make sure that you can &apos;t prove that there are no predictors , the man is very happy .
he &apos;s very happy about it because he deceived it .
because he led them to a ribbon that he doesn &apos;t stop himself .
because in fact , this person is not interested in evidence .
he &apos;s just interested in keeping himself free of the need to prove that there are predictors .
so , in the kind of shift in the burden of evidence , you &apos;re experiencing the magnitude of the lie .
a language is the expression of the human mind .
and we can navigate in this very simple way .
and once again , if you have this kind of opportunity to feel this triple in other people , you do , because you will make other people happy if you don &apos;t remind them of your self-lies that way .
thank you for your attention .
yeah , good afternoon .
i allowed myself to ask lilly if i could mention it .
she &apos;s one of the performers here from this great event , and she asked me if i wanted to give a talk here and give my idea .
i have to say , you got it , it was hard to talk about my idea at the beginning .
and i might think of my island project as trying to imagine you .
but of course , it &apos;s the sum of many , many ideas .
i probably belong , the two nice girls are still there , i &apos;m probably one of the generation that &apos;s been ordered for this bad eko image , because i &apos;ve already started studying machine construction in karlsruh , engineering college , today they &apos;re called kit , i think .
and then it hit me in the mid-80s to berlin because i wanted to make renewable energy , and it wasn &apos;t in karlsruh .
you know , i never believed i was going to work at microsoft .
there was the core research facility called leopoldshafen .
they were all called kfa at the time , and the jewish one was called kfa .
they &apos;re now called project carriers .
because a good engineer has either built great cars or nuclear power plants .
but it was a doofes like &quot; n solar pendulum , &quot; which sort of comes out of a hundred watts of the square meter , which was a toy .
and in berlin , there was a crazy engineering collective .
i &apos;m grateful to the premium cola man that he rehabilitated the word again , because after the fall of the wall , you couldn &apos;t use the word anymore , because everything on the left was bad .
but it wasn &apos;t like that in the &apos; 80s .
and it was just that there were self-administered alternate operations , and one of them was sitting in the intersection yard where you thought the evil was in the courtyard .
it was the place of terrorism , but that was called the furious dronics , and it made wind and solar , and that &apos;s where i started in the mid-80s .
i &apos;m very grateful for the reception here .
and yes , a lot of what was said today , i &apos;m very touched by many , many beautiful expressions that i &apos;ve also lived through .
i worked for 11 years in the collective , which was grassroots .
we were 20 people .
when one said no , the vetoprinzip was completely crushed , and i &apos;ve been struggling with the fact that for 10 years , maybe i &apos;ve wasted my great engineering college , because all my father &apos;s colleagues have always advised him , you &apos;ve thrown the money out to the window in your kid .
it &apos;s about inflammation .
and that was really , really bitter , and then you get into this kind of phase , and it just came up with a picture of where i was asking myself , after 10 years , a thousand d marks were still , you know , basic wages , uncertainty in the collective , of course , whether that &apos;s really the great thing to do .
and then i got it up to six and a half , and then we got together with friends , i became the co-founder of the company solon , who then became one of the largest cell manufacturers in the world with the spin-off q-cells .
a huge story of success , but we also have , of course , the problem of a growing company , and we have two thousand , a small group , decided that we &apos;re going to start small and go back and dedicate ourselves to the next topic of the future , and that , i think , is the same crazy thing again , and that &apos;s going to start with people saying , what &apos;s the nonsense , that &apos;s all going to do , we &apos;re talking about storage .
and i brought you with me a project that i want to introduce you to .
and the title of the talk was , yes , how to get to a hundred percent renewable .
i suspect you can see that these are a lot of different kinds of cameras : everything is in the process , from the cell phone camera to professional slrs , a fairly large number of them that have all been put together in this environment .
and we just started to ask a relatively simplistic story , where could you use a memory of what &apos;s going on today ?
on this island , this is the island of graciosa on the azors .
yeah , that &apos;s the data .
there are four and a half thousand people living there .
they have a fifteen percent renewable rate today .
and the question is , why don &apos;t you have more ?
it just doesn &apos;t work technologically .
if you add more wind power to each other , the system starts to fail .
and i always tell the politicians , when they &apos;re in berlin adlershard , they &apos;re doing our facility .
they always say , why ?
and if possible , i &apos;ll find some of the weird .
we already have 20 percent in germany .
can &apos;t be a problem .
but it &apos;s not true , we have seven percent in europe , and our web is physically the european .
if we had 20 percent in europe , we would have the same problems that people have on this island .
the question was simple , calculated that was two thousand in 2006 , started the first contacts with the island , just compute .
how big would it have to be , in fact , a battery so that you could get an island of 20 , 30 , 40 , 50 , maybe even seventh percent renewable ?
and yeah , i &apos;m going to go one more slide .
the conventional system looks like this all over the world .
by the way , about a hundred gigawatts of electrical performance are being built on the same basis in the world .
that &apos;s the power of a hundred nuclear power plants , because it &apos;s particularly fast everywhere .
many of them are covered by faces and so on .
the world &apos;s energy hunger that happens is wiped out with this , because you don &apos;t need permission .
that &apos;s fast .
you put a box like this .
and then it usually looks like this .
in that process , three of these are always waited , two are always waited .
yes , this is what you see at the bottom is the load .
we also got very accurate data .
and the wind plant , or the solar system , or whatever it is , is usually a back-up system , or a system , which can only eat in small quantities here .
our goal was to say , &quot; okay . &quot;
this is going to be back-up , and the wind , the sun is going to serve the burden so that they can map the larger proportion .
somewhere here are a series of photographs -- here they are .
and if you want to go over 20 , 30 percent renewables per year , energy per year , not the power at the moment , you have to turn off the diesel .
that is , at the moment , you have to make sure that renewables can sort of take over the entire net .
of course , you can only do that if you &apos;re manned in some way here .
no one has done that in the world .
this is in a small style , so you can also serve your razor in the car over a little change judge .
people always ask me , what do you actually do research in adlershard ?
that &apos;s already the case .
but if you want to aggregate several of these interfaces , and they &apos;re going to build a net , it &apos;s going to be very complicated .
and our goal was , we wanted to go to 70-percent renewables , and then we have this rest here , the last 10 , 20 percent renewable , and that &apos;s going to be very , very expensive , and it &apos;s not going to work that you do it from batteries .
so this is certainly going to be an energy carrier , which is going to be , you know , hydrogen , methane , power to gas , or sh , it &apos;s going to be .
this is actually a poster of notre dame , which was really recorded .
you have to then go to a season memory , and winter summer , and not just day-night .
we just wanted to know , what about a normal , stink electrochemical battery ?
how far do you get ?
and then they did a whole bunch of simulations .
and the wind and the sun and the load were simulated , and they came to the conclusion , a very exciting conclusion , that after 20 years , you can get out to the conventional system , which takes about 50 cents a kilowatt-hour , about 40 cents a kilowatt-hour .
these were the very first calculations six years ago .
and then we said , okay .
well , it &apos;s great , then we have a business model .
we &apos;re cheaper than the same system when the same price goes up five percent a year .
and then we started negotiating with the insulanders .
we can move from the poster to a physical view of this environment .
what would have to be done ?
have negotiated with investors , i &apos;ve been looking for new social leaders .
we were only five people then to rebuild the society .
and here &apos;s the representation again .
the brown is sort of the conventional system , the green is our system .
that our system also has a price increase , because we &apos;re doing 20 percent with this , and we &apos;re not going to go through a price increase in the other things .
and the power-utility , which meant the power company on the island , which we think is great .
we also want to support , but we don &apos;t believe you can solve the technical problem .
and so we decided to build a hall in berlin where we can sort of map the electrical dynamics of the island one to three very precisely .
that is , we started looking for the world &apos;s largest battery .
the point here is that we can do things with the social environment . it &apos;s now collected data from everybody -- from the whole collective memory of how , visually , the earth -- and everything is connected to each other .
here it is .
it comes naturally from asia , in which case of japan .
and funny , in the &apos; 70s , it was developed at bbc mannheim , today abb , and then it was licensed to the japanese .
it &apos;s a very , very large battery , you can see it .
it &apos;s got a megawatt power , and it can get this performance for six hours , and that &apos;s the battery that we kind of got out of simulating technology .
and then put them up .
we also put one of these same aggregate in the same size that it &apos;s standing there , into the hall , in fact , the full dynamic behavior of this web , so in the hall , it &apos;s now like this , there &apos;s the back here , here &apos;s the big battery , here &apos;s the whole judge that we &apos;re simulating the web with .
over here , we &apos;re simulating the whole transmission system , the kilometer physics of cables , to sort of map the vibrational behavior on the net .
and here you can see the whole thing again .
we can also turn on two hundred kilowatts of photovoltaics on the net .
and of course , we all share the same adaptation needs .
it &apos;s a means for finding access to the tangible soul of a particular culture .
all these photographs are connected together , and there &apos;s something that &apos;s bigger than the sum of the parts .
so here we see this again , again , the diesel , again , all the individual aggregate .
and what we &apos;ve done since two-thousandth , the hall was finished , until now , two-thousand-odd , basically everything that was built in this room between the single system of electronics , we &apos;ve done it .
so we &apos;re not batteries manufacturers , but we &apos;re defining ourselves as a company that &apos;s just between the subject of battery and the subject of the web and everything in between .
you have to , of course , communicate to the battery , you have to be able to communicate to the web , and that &apos;s very complicated .
the nice thing about this is that , basically , on this island today , you can take it all away from problems that we &apos;re going to get when we want to increase our share of renewables .
so this whole discussion , how is it moving back and forth at the moment , energy turning , how is it going to work , on the island , we have , for example , five to 30 percent excess energy , so we &apos;re tired of the wind and the sun .
natural light then offers smart-grid .
so smart-grid , a huge topic everywhere .
we can start to integrate electromobility on the island , to ask around , because you can manage the load .
that means that if you &apos;re at 70-percent renewables , you won &apos;t be able to do it without memory .
you get a model that comes from all over the world .
you can do it through &quot; n smart-grid , &quot; you can do it by building the nets , yes , you should definitely do it , listen to the percentage , but you will never be able to completely eliminate the memory .
and that &apos;s the message .
that &apos;s why a lot of people come in and look at that , because you can see what problems you get .
when we turn off this one , you don &apos;t have this rotating mass that causes a certain amount of inertia on the net .
and our european network is basically just made of loud rotating masses of big power plants , where the wave is always spinning all over europe .
we look in this net , we see the 50 hertz , and if it turns nine , 40-odd comma , we &apos;ll catch some ventilates , then we &apos;ll go back in a little bit of a merh steam , and then we &apos;ll come up again .
this is the system .
and of course , this is incredible amounts .
if you tear that down somewhere , it takes a while .
the spinning reserve has at least 10 seconds to keep the net stable .
consider this as the sequel of the work of stephen lawlers on virtual earth .
and in time , you can react to other things again .
if you don &apos;t have that anymore , that rotating mass , you have to replace that with power electronics and electrochemistry .
and we can turn out two milliseconds with this big battery .
and you can see already what enormous speed possibilities there are .
and the message is , we have to get rid of these rotating masses , if we sort of want our goals to 20 , 20 , 20 percent , 20 percent , 30 , 30 percent , and so on , if we want to get to that .
then we have to degrade our must-run capacity on the net .
must-run is simply , the power plant is running to keep the frequency .
yes , it &apos;s a huge debate right now , to build the coal power plants , because we don &apos;t have any else , or gasturbines , because it doesn &apos;t work .
and we &apos;re just trying to clarify that you can degrade the capacity , the must-run capacity , by also putting electrochemical storage into the grid .
and luckily , there &apos;s a whole lot of studies now .
and this is something that grows through the complexity that people use , and its use for the user is getting bigger and bigger with the application .
and for that purpose , people always come and look at our trial on this , sort of our island test .
and yes , the discussion is always about , how far can you take a piece of the future out there ?
and many discussions that i &apos;ve had in the last six years have been similar to the discussion that i &apos;ve had in the last 30 years about photovoltaics .
it doesn &apos;t go , it &apos;s weakness , it &apos;s child toys , we &apos;ve calculated everything , never figures out .
we have 30 gigawatts of photovoltaics in germany today .
this is preconceived .
and i just assume that in the next 30 years we will have the same capacity of electrochemical storage around the world .
simple , that &apos;s how it &apos;s going to come .
there will be a whole bunch of resistance and arguments .
the beauty is that i &apos;ve seen , in the last two years , that the scientists are putting themselves on my side .
their own photos are reported with metadata that another person has entered .
we have now gotten over 10 million funding projects , even about 10 megawatt-battery battery now on the german net .
this is going to happen in the next april .
so from that point , you also realize that there &apos;s a change there , and it &apos;s just from that defense to yes , to the idea that there &apos;s a hundred percent renewables that are true .
and if you have a hundred percent renewables , it &apos;s like an autara system .
so far in discussions , these insulanders , they make autark , they have their own little net , which has nothing to do with our connection .
the question is , quite simply , if you make yourself completely independent of any fossil or uranium energy , which is being drilled out somewhere in the world and taken to them , you &apos;re an island .
then they just use what &apos;s on the sun and the wind where they live .
and this is a little bit of our vision of a sensible energy supply , and i &apos;m cradle-to-cradle also grateful that they said , use solar energy .
and that &apos;s what we do , and in this way , the talk of premium kola is that you can be a collective and use solar energy , here &apos;s a little bit together .
and yeah , i just want to encourage you , in the sense that you can be quiet and have a vision .
if someone who &apos;s struggled with all of these sacred people and shared who they are , then my photograph is suddenly enriched by the emergency of dame-kathedral with all of this data , and i can use it as a starting point to dive into this room , into these metaverse , which uses pictures of other people , and therefore make a kind of overwhelming model of social experience with other providers .
and you really have to be quite tough , but i think it &apos;s going to be .
thank you .
when steve lopez , columnist of the los angeles times , went through the streets in the center of los angeles , he heard a wonderful music .
she came from a man , an african-american , sympathetic , rau , homeless , who played on a violin that had only two strings .
many of you will know the story , because steves &apos; articles later became a book that was filmed again with robert downey junior as steve lopez and jamie foxx as nathaniel anthony ayers , the contrabassist who studied the juilliar conservatory , and whose promising career was tragically ended early through his paranoid schizophrenia .
nathaniel left juilliard , suffered a breakdown , and 30 years later , he lived as homeless on the streets of skid row in the center of los angeles .
i recommend all of you to read steves &apos; book or look at the movie so that you can understand not only the wonderful connectedness that &apos;s been created between these two men , but also how music helped make that connection , and how it was that instrument when that pun was allowed to get the mithalf , nathaniel away from the street .
i met mr ayers in 2008 , two years ago , in the walt disney hall .
he had just heard a demonstration of beethoven &apos;s first and fourth symphony and came behind the stage to imagine myself .
he talked about yo-yo ma and hillary clinton in a very healthier and social sound , and how the dodgers would never make it into the baseball world series , and all of that because of the tangible passage of the first violin in the last sentence of beethoven &apos;s fourth symphony .
and of course , by the way , the immense rich virtual models of every interesting part of the earth , which have not only been preserved by flight or satellite images and so on , but by collective memory .
we came to talk about music , and a few days later , i got an email that said that nathaniel was interested in gardening .
i have to mention that nathaniel had a medical treatment , because he had already been treated with electroshocks and with thorazine and handcuffs , a trauma that followed him all his life .
as a result , he &apos;s now particularly vulnerable to these schizophrenic stages , and they &apos;re so bad sometimes , and he &apos;s disappearing for days , in the streets of skid row , always exposed to this horror and the torture of his own mind .
and in the same way that a rice stage was nathaniel , when we started with our first lesson in the walt disney hall , and he had this irre flag in his eyes , and he was completely lost .
he talked about invisible demons and smoke and how someone wanted to poison them in their sleep .
i was afraid , not for opinion , but i was afraid that i could lose him , that he could sink into one of his states , and that i could destroy his relationship with the violin , if i started talking about tons and arpeggios and other exciting forms of didactic gardening .
so i just started playing .
i played the first sentence of beethoven &apos;s violin concert .
and as i was playing , i noticed that in nathaniel &apos;s eyes , a complete change was happening .
it was like he was standing under the influence of an invisible doctor , a chemical reaction , whose catalyst was my game .
thank you .
nathaniels manic anger turned into understanding , into quiet curiosity and courage .
and like a miracle , he took his violin and started playing some clips of violin concerts and then asked me to end them : mendeline son , tschaikowski , sibelius .
we then started talking about music , from bach to beethoven , brahms , bruckner and all the other bs , from bartok to esa pekka salons .
and i realized that , not only did he have an encyclopedic knowledge about music , but he also connected it to a close personal relationship .
he talked about her with a passion and an understanding that i otherwise know only from my colleagues in the philharmony of los angeles .
by playing music and talking about music , this paranoid , confused man who had just moved through the streets of los angeles , became a lover , educated , excellent , in juilliard trained musicians .
music is medicine . music changes us .
for nathaniel , music means mental health .
because music allows him to reform his thoughts and delusions with his imagination and creativity into something real .
and so it escapes its agonizing states .
do i get it right ? your software enables at a certain point , within the next few years , all the images that are used together in the world , basically connected ?
i understood that this is exactly the nature of art .
that &apos;s why we make music : so that we can make something that is deep inside us all , our emotions , through our artistic lens , through our creativity to reality .
and the reality of that expression reaches all of us , and moves , inspired and united .
what nathaniel did , the music brought him back to a community of friends .
the redemption power of music brought him back to a family of musicians who understood him , who recognized his talent and looked at him .
and i &apos;m going to keep playing with nathaniel , whether in the walt disney concert hall or skid row , because he reminds me why i became a musician .
thank you .
bruno giussani : thank you very much . thank you .
robert gupta .
robert gupta : i want to play something that i have , unfortunately , stolen the cellist .
yeah . it doesn &apos;t do anything but discovery .
i hope you &apos;ll forgive me .
so i &apos;ve known a lot of fish in my life .
i just loved two .
this first one , this was more like a passionate monkey .
it was a beautiful fish , tasty , good consistency , sustainable , a bestseller on the menu .
what a fish .
even better , he was raised in aquaculture after the highest standards of sustainability .
so you could feel comfortable selling it .
i had a relationship with this beauty over several months .
one day , the ceo of the company called and asked if i could talk about the sustainability of the farm at an event .
every language is like an old-standing forest of the mind , a turning point , an idea , an ecosystem of spiritual possibilities .
if you want , it creates hyperlinks between the images .
&quot; of course , &quot; i said .
here was a company that was trying to solve what this unimaginable problem was for our chefs . how do we keep fish on our menu ?
in the last 50 years , we &apos;ve fished the ocean as we &apos;ve beaten the forests .
it &apos;s hard to overestimate the destruction .
90 percent of the big fish that we love , the tuna , the healing butte , the salmon , heavy fish , they collapsed .
there &apos;s almost nothing left .
so probably or evil aquaculture , fisheries building , will be part of our future .
a lot of the arguments against it . fisheries are polluting the environment , most of them anyway , and they &apos;re inefficient , we take tuna . it &apos;s a big disadvantage .
he &apos;s got a food processing from 15 to one .
that is , 15 pounds of wild fish are required to get a pound of sugar tuna .
and it does this because of the content in the images .
not very sustainable .
it doesn &apos;t taste very good either .
so here was finally a company that was trying to do it right .
i wanted to support them .
the day before the event , i called the head of public work for the company .
let &apos;s call it don .
&quot; don , &quot; i said , &quot; just to have the facts right , you &apos;re famous for growing so far out in the sea that you don &apos;t pollution the environment . &quot;
&quot; that &apos;s true , &quot; he said . &quot; we &apos;re so far out that the waste is distributed by our fish , not concentrated . &quot;
and then he added , &quot; we &apos;re basically a world of ourselves .
this feeding review from 2.5 to one , &quot; he said .
and that &apos;s really exciting when you think about the abundance of the semantic information that many of these images have .
&quot; the best in the industry . &quot;
2.5 to one , great .
&quot; 2.5 to one what ? what do you feed ? &quot;
&quot; sustainable proteins , &quot; he said .
&quot; great , &quot; i said . set up .
and that evening , i was lying in bed thinking , what the hell is a sustainable protein ?
so the next day i called , just before the event , don .
i said , &quot; don &apos;t , what are sustainable proteins ? &quot;
he said he didn &apos;t know that . he &apos;s going to ask .
now , i was talking to a few people in the company , and no one could give me a decent answer , until i finally telephone with the leading biologist .
like if you do a web search for images , where you type in sentences , and the text of the website contains a lot of information about what the image is .
let &apos;s call it don too .
&quot; don , &quot; i said , &quot; what are sustainable proteins ? &quot;
well , he mentioned some algae and some fish meals , and then he said , chicken pellets .
i said , &quot; chicken pellets ? &quot;
he said , &quot; yes , feathers , skin , bone flour , rests , dried and processed for food . &quot;
i said , &quot; what percentage of your food is chicken ? &quot;
in the presumption of maybe two percent .
&quot; well , that &apos;s about 30 percent , &quot; he said .
i said , &quot; don &apos;t , what &apos;s sustainable to feed chicken to fish ? &quot;
there was a long break in the line , and he said , &quot; there &apos;s just too much chicken in the world . &quot;
but what if the image connects you to all your images ?
i fell in love with this fish .
no , not because i &apos;m a self-righteous enjoyment and good person .
that &apos;s actually me .
no , i actually loved this fish because , you know , i swear to god , who &apos;s been smashing for chicken after this conversation .
this second fish , this is a different kind of love story .
it &apos;s the romantic species , the more you know your fish , the better you love the fish .
i ate him first in a restaurant in southern spain .
a friend of mine had been talking about this fish for a long time .
it &apos;s kind of wired us up .
he came to the table with a bright , almost floating white color .
then the volume of the semantic cross-section and the abundance that comes out of it is really enormous . it &apos;s a classic network effect .
the chef cooked him .
stop twice .
amazingly , he was still delicious .
who can make a fish taste so good after it &apos;s cooked ?
i can &apos;t , but this guy can do it .
let &apos;s call it miguel . in fact , it &apos;s called miguel .
and no , he didn &apos;t cook the fish , and he &apos;s not a chef , at least in the way that you and i understand .
he &apos;s a biologist at veta la palma .
this is a fish elevated in the southwestern corner of spain .
it &apos;s near the mouth of the guadalquivir river .
blaise , that &apos;s really incredible . heart congratulations .
until the 1980s , the farm was in the hands of argentina .
they grew carnivores on what was basically wetlands .
they did that by irrigating the country .
they built this complicated consequence of channels , and they pushed water out of the country and out into the river .
well , they couldn &apos;t do that , not economically .
and ecologically , it was a disaster .
it killed about 90 percent of the birds , which is a lot of birds for this place .
and so in 1982 , a spanish company with environmental consciousness bought the country .
what did they do ?
they &apos;ve reversed the flow of the water .
thank you very much .
they literally flipped the lever .
instead of pushing the water out , they used the channels to pull the water back in .
they flew the channels .
they created a 11,000 acres of fish -- bark , seafood , shrimp , aal -- and in doing so , miguel and his company completely reversed the ecological destruction .
the farm is incredible .
i mean , you &apos;ve never seen anything like this .
they stare out on the horizon , which is a million miles away , and all you see is cursed channels and these dense , lush marches .
i wasn &apos;t there with miguel a long time ago .
he &apos;s an incredible guy , three parts charles darwin and a part of &quot; a crocodile for kissing . &quot;
okay ? so there we were , and we fought through the wetlands , and i cheat and sweat , and i have a mud to my knees , and miguel gives us a biology lecture in quiet .
i &apos;m going to tell you some things from my book that , i hope , are in harmony with other things that you &apos;ve already heard , and i &apos;m going to try and make some connections , if you haven &apos;t noticed them .
here he &apos;s highlighting a rare glitaar .
now he mentioned the minerals needs of phytoplankton .
and here he sees a pattern of bundles that reminds him of the tanzanian giraffe .
it turns out that miguel spent most of his career in mikumi national park in africa .
i asked him how he became such a fish expert .
he said , &quot; fish ? i don &apos;t know anything about fish .
i &apos;m an expert on relationships . &quot;
and then he goes and falls into more talk of rare birds and algae and strange water plants .
and don &apos;t get me wrong , that was really fascinating , you know , the biotic community unplugged , like that .
it &apos;s great , but i was in love .
i want to start with what i call official dogma .
and my head became weak about this cooked piece of delicious fish that i had on the morning .
so i interrupted it . i said , &quot; miguel , how come your fish tastes so good ? &quot;
he pointed at the algae .
&quot; i know young , the algae , the phytoplankton , the relationships , that &apos;s incredible .
but what do your fish eat ?
what is the food processing ? &quot;
now , he goes on to tell me that it &apos;s such a rich system that the fish eat what they would eat in the wild .
the plant biomass , the phytoplankton , the zooplankton , is what feeds the fish .
the system is so healthy , it &apos;s completely self-sufficient .
there &apos;s no food .
and of those 6,000 languages today , as we sit here in monterey , half of them are not whispered into the ears of children .
the official dogma of what ?
any farm that doesn &apos;t feed your animals ?
later on the day , i went around on this site with miguel , and i asked him , i said , &quot; for a place that seems so natural , &quot; unlike any farm i &apos;ve ever been to , &quot; how do you measure success ? &quot;
at that moment , it was as if a film director had demanded a shift in time .
and we bent around the corner , and we had the most incredible look , thousands and thousands of pink flamingos , a literally pink carpet , as far as the eye goes .
&quot; that &apos;s success , &quot; he said .
&quot; look at your stomach , pink .
they &apos;re bad . &quot;
bad ? i was totally confused .
i said , &quot; miguel , don &apos;t you bad your fish ? &quot;
&quot; yes , &quot; he said .
the official belief of all western industrialized societies .
&quot; we lose 20 percent of our fish and fish eggs to the birds .
well , last year , on this site , there were 600,000 birds , more than 250 different species .
it &apos;s become the largest and one of the most important private bird reserves in all of europe today .
i said , &quot; miguel , isn &apos;t a good thriving bird population the last thing you want to have on a fish fish ? &quot;
he shaked his head , no .
he said , &quot; we &apos;re building extensively , not intensive .
this is an ecological network .
the flamingos eat the shrimp .
the shrimp eats the phytoplankton .
so the pink the belly the better the system . &quot;
the way the official dogma works is that , if our goal is to maximize the well-being of our citizens , it &apos;s all about maximizing the freedom of the individual .
okay , let &apos;s rethink that . a farm that doesn &apos;t feed their animals and a farm that measures their success in the health of their predators .
a fish lift , but also a bird reserve .
oh , and by the way , these flamingos shouldn &apos;t even be there before .
they breed in a city 240 kilometers away , where the ground quality is better for nest maintenance .
every morning , they fly to the farm for 240 miles .
and every night they fly back 240 kilometers .
they do that because they can follow the striked white line of the highway a92 .
seriously .
i had imagined a kind of journey of penguins , so i looked at miguel .
i said , &quot; miguel , do you fly to the farm , and do you fly 240 miles back in the evening ?
the reason for this is that freedom is good in itself , valuable , meaningful , a viable premise for the human .
do you do that for the kids ? &quot;
he looked at me like i had just quoted a song by whitney houston .
he said , &quot; no . you do it because the food is better . &quot;
i didn &apos;t mention the skin of my beloved fish , which was delicious , and i don &apos;t like a fish skin . i don &apos;t like it sucking . i don &apos;t like it crushing .
it &apos;s this beijing , cooked taste .
i almost never cook with it .
and yet , when i tried it in this south spain restaurant , it didn &apos;t look like fish skin .
she tasted sweet and pure , as if you were to take a bite off the ocean .
i mentioned that to miguel and he was nodding .
he said , &quot; the skin works like a sponge .
when people have freedom , each of us is about doing the things that maximize our public good and no one has to decide for us .
it &apos;s the last defense before something comes into the body .
it &apos;s evolved in the course of evolution to suck in units . &quot;
and then he said , &quot; but our water doesn &apos;t have any contaminants . &quot;
okay . a farm that doesn &apos;t feed its fish , a farm that measures its success on its predators .
and then i realized , when he says , a farm that doesn &apos;t have any contaminants , it underpowers enormous , because the water that flows through that farm comes in from the river of guadalquivir .
it &apos;s a river that &apos;s carrying all the things that rivers now tend to carry them , chemical pollutants , flowing out of pest control .
and if it &apos;s been fought through the system , and it &apos;s got cleaner than how it came in .
the system is so healthy , it cleans the water .
so not just a farm that feeds its animals , not just a farm that measures its success in the health of its predators , but a farm that is literally a water treatment plant , and not just for those fish , but also for you and me .
because when the water flows out , it decreases in the atlantic .
the way to maximize freedom is to maximize choice .
a drop in the ocean , i know , but i &apos;m going to take it , and you should do that , because this love story , however romantic , is also insightful .
you might say it &apos;s a recipe for the future of good food , whether we &apos;re talking about barsch or meat .
what we need now is a radical new concept of agriculture , of one where food actually tastes good .
but for many people , that &apos;s a little bit too radical .
we &apos;re not realists , we &apos;re more enjoyable . we &apos;re lovers .
we love weekly markets . we love small family businesses . we talk about local food . we eat bio .
and if you say that these are the things that make good food in the future , somebody gets up somewhere and says , &quot; hey guys , i love pinke flamingos , but how are you going to feed the world ?
how will they feed the world ? &quot;
can i be honest ?
i don &apos;t like that question .
the more choices people have , the more freedom they have , and the more freedom they have , the more common they have .
no , not because we &apos;re already producing enough calories to feed the world more than just .
a billion people are going to starve today .
a billion -- that &apos;s more than ever before -- because of crasser inequalities in distribution , not in total production .
now , i don &apos;t like this question because it &apos;s the logic of our food system for the last 50 years .
feeding grain of plants , pests of monocultures , chemicals to the earth , chicken of fish , and all the time the agricultural industry just asked , &quot; if we feed more people cheaper , how terrible can that be ? &quot;
that was the cause . it was the justification . it was the business plan of american agriculture .
we should call it what it is , a commercial in the wrap-up , a commercial that quickly ecological capital that allows for that production to happen .
this is not a commercial , and it &apos;s not agriculture .
our baseline chamber is threatened today , not because of decreasing resources , but because of decreasing resources .
not through the latest mice and tractor inventions , but through fertile land , not through pumps , but through fresh water , not through chainsaws , but through forests , and not through fishing boats and nets , but through fish in the sea .
this , i think , is so deeply anchored in our water supply that no one would ever have to question it .
they want to feed the world ?
let &apos;s start with the question : how are we going to feed ourselves ?
or better , how can we create conditions that enable every community to feed themselves ?
to do that , don &apos;t look at the agrarian industrial model for the future .
it &apos;s really old , and it &apos;s done .
capital , chemistry and machines are in it , and it never really produced anything good for food .
instead , let &apos;s look at the ecological model .
that &apos;s what goes back to two billion years of labor experience .
look at miguel , farmers like miguel .
businesses that are not worlds for themselves , businesses that are restoring instead of using up , that are expanding extensively , instead of just intensive , farmers who are not just generators , but experts for relationships .
and it &apos;s also deeply rooted in our lives .
because they &apos;re the ones who are also experts for taste .
and if i &apos;m really honest , you &apos;re a better chef than i &apos;ll ever be .
you know , i &apos;m right , because if that &apos;s the future of good food , it will be delicious .
thank you .
if i want to get you to one thing today , it &apos;s that the total data that we consume is larger than the sum of its parts and instead of thinking about information overlapping , i want you to think about how we can use information so that patterns can emerge , and we can see trends that wouldn &apos;t have become visible otherwise .
so , what we &apos;re seeing here is a typical sterile diagram of age .
the program that i &apos;m using here is a little experiment .
it &apos;s called pivot , and what i can do with pivot is i can filter after a certain cause of death , let &apos;s say accidents .
and immediately , i see a different pattern that comes out .
and that &apos;s because in the middle area , people are the most active , and they &apos;re the most fragile over here .
i &apos;m going to give you some examples of what makes modern progress possible .
we can take a step further and then rearrange the data and see that circular disease and cancer are the usual suspects , but not for everyone .
now , as we go on and sort of age , we say 40 years , or younger , we see that accidents are actually the main thing that people should worry about .
and if you continue to research , this is particularly true of men .
so you can see that looking at information and data in this way reminds very much of swimming in a living information graph .
and if we can do this for raw data , why not for content itself ?
so what we have here is the cover of every single sports illustrated that have ever been printed .
it &apos;s all here . it &apos;s all online .
you can test it after my talk in your rooms .
with pivot , you can dive into a decade .
you can dive into a particular year .
they &apos;re not taught to infants anymore , which means that if nothing is done , they &apos;re actually dead .
this is my supermarket . it &apos;s not a big one .
you can jump directly to a certain output .
now , when i look here , i see the athletes that appear in this copy and the sports .
i &apos;m a lance armstrong fan , so i click on what all the spending in which lance armstrong is mentioned .
now , if i just want to get a bigger overview , could i think , &quot; ok , what if i look at everything about biking ? &quot;
so i &apos;m going to take a step back , and i &apos;m going to make a point of view .
now i see greg lemond .
and so you get an idea that if you go through this kind of information , target , broader , zoom in , zoom out , you don &apos;t look for it or surf not just .
you do something that &apos;s actually a little bit different .
it &apos;s something in between , and we think it changes the way information can be used .
so i want to take this idea a little bit further with something like this , which is a little crazy .
i just want to say a little bit about salatdressing .
what we &apos;ve done here is we &apos;ve taken every single wikipediasis and we &apos;ve reduced it to a little summary .
the summary contains a short overview and a symbol of the area that it comes from .
i &apos;ll just show you the top 500 of the most popular wikipediasites .
but even in this limited view , we can do a lot of things .
immediately , we get a sense of the topics that are most popular on wikipedia .
i &apos;m going to choose the issue of government .
now , after i choose government , i realize that the wikipediacatories that are most likely to cover time magazine &quot; people of the year . &quot;
this is really important because this is a realization that is not in a single wikipediasis .
it &apos;s only to recognize when you go back and look at the whole thing .
looking at one of these summaries , i can then go into the theme of time magazine , &quot; people of the year , &quot; and see them all together .
there are 175 dressings in my supermarket , if you don &apos;t count the 10 extra olive oil and 12 balsamico-essig that you could buy to make a large number of your own salad dessings , in which unlikely case that none of the 175 in the store is right for you .
now , when i look at all these people , i realize that the majority of them are government officials , some of them come from science , some of them , even less , come from the economy . here &apos;s my boss . and one comes from the music field .
and interestingly , bono is also a ted prize winner .
so we can now jump and look at all the ted prize winners .
you can see that we &apos;re surfing the web for the first time as if it &apos;s actually a web , not just from side to side , but much more abstract .
and so i want to show you something else that might be a little surprise .
i &apos;ll just show you the new york times website here .
pivot , this application -- i don &apos;t want to call it a browser ; it &apos;s really not a browser , but you can look at websites -- and we can bring this zoom-technology to every single website like this .
so i can take a step back and jump directly to a specific section .
and that &apos;s important because you can only look at websites in this way , the whole internet course in the same way .
so i can zoom in on my course in a certain time frame .
so that &apos;s what the supermarket is like .
here &apos;s the state of the whole demonstration that i &apos;ve been holding to this point .
and i can sort of reclaim everything i &apos;ve looked at today .
and if i take a step out and look at everything , i can rearrange my course , maybe , after my search past . here , i &apos;ve been looking for &quot; nepotistic , &quot; here to bing , or here to live labs .
and from here , i can go into the site and call them up again .
it &apos;s a metaphor that &apos;s used over and over again , and every time it makes the whole picture bigger than the sum of the data rush .
right now , in this world , we think that data is a curse .
we &apos;re talking about the curse of information abundance .
we &apos;re talking about &quot; drowning in information . &quot;
what if we could turn this situation around and turn the internet on its head , so that instead of going from one to the other , we could start to go from many things to many things , and see patterns that would have otherwise been hidden ?
if we can do that , then this data trap , maybe a new source of information becomes meaningful .
and then you go to the consumer electronics business to put together a stereo -- speakers , cd players , a cassette player , radio , amplifier , and in this one electronics business , there are so many stereo facilities .
and , instead of just moving into information , we can get knowledge from it .
and if we know , then maybe we can even pull wisdom out of it .
and i &apos;ll stop that , thank you very much .
i grew up with a heightened portion of science fiction .
in my school , i drove to school with the bus , an hour per day .
and my nose was always stuck in a book , a science fiction book , which took my thoughts into other worlds and , in a narrative , satisfied my deep in me , insatiable curiosity .
and this curiosity also showed that if i wasn &apos;t in school , i would go through the forests , and i would go and collect samples , frogs and snakes and beetles and dough water , and i would bring it all home and look under the microscope .
i was so thrilled with science , you know .
it was all about trying to understand the world and to explore the limits of the possible .
and my love of science fiction seemed to reflect in my environment , because at the time , in the late &apos; 60s , we went to the moon and we explored the deep sea .
we can assemble 6.5 million different stereo facilities from the components that are offered in this one store .
jacques cousteau came into our living rooms with his fascinating shows that showed us animals and places and a world of wonder that we could never have imagined before .
that &apos;s probably very well adapted to that science fiction role .
and i was an artist .
i could draw . i could paint .
and since there was no video games or this overwhelming with computer-generated movies or all the imagery in the media landscape , i had to create the images in my head .
we all had to do that at the time . when we read a book as children , we took the description of the author and we projected it on the canvas in our heads .
my reaction to that was to draw and paint from aliens , alien worlds , robots , spacecraft and all that kind of thing .
in math class , i was always caught by the teacher , like me , hiding in the back of the textbook .
creativity kind of had to go out .
and something interesting happened to me , because what fascinated me about jacques cousteaus shows was the idea of a completely unknown world here on our earth itself .
you have to admit that this is a big choice .
certainly , i would never meet an alien world with a spaceship , which seemed quite unlikely to me .
but here was a world that i could actually enter , here on earth , and it was just as fascinating and exotic as all of what i had always imagined when i read these books .
so when i was 15 , i decided to be a diver .
the only problem with this was that i lived in a small village in canada , 1,000 miles from the nearest ocean .
but i didn &apos;t let myself get out of that .
i annoyed my father until he finally found a dive school in buffalo , new york , right on the other side of the border where we lived .
i made my trap bill in a pool of the ymca in the middle of the winter in buffalo , new york .
but the ocean , a real ocean , i only got to face two years later when we moved to california .
since , in the 40 years that are now confused , i &apos;ve spent about 3,000 hours underwater , 500 hours of that in submersibles .
and i &apos;ve learned that the deep sea world , even in the shallow oceans , is as rich as fascinating life as we really can &apos;t imagine .
in other areas -- the world of communication .
nature &apos;s imagination doesn &apos;t know any limits , as opposed to our own bright human imagination .
to this day , i feel the deepest awe for what i see on my dives .
and my love of the ocean continues with the same intensity as eh and ever .
so when i went to a job as an adult , it was filming .
that seemed to be the best way to tell my inner urge , tell stories , with my need to create images , to unite .
as a child , i was constantly drawing comic books and so on .
so movies were the way to bring together images and stories , and that fit together .
of course , the stories i chose from the science fiction area were &quot; terminator , &quot; &quot; aliens , &quot; and &quot; abyss . &quot;
in &quot; abyss , &quot; i could connect my preference for the underwater world and the diving with the filmmaking .
so my two passions kind of intertwined .
there was a time when i was a boy , you could have every telephone provider you wanted as long as he came from ma bell .
something interesting happened in &quot; abyss &quot; : to solve a narrative problem in this movie -- and that is , we had to create a kind of liquid water creature -- we took it back on computer-generated animation , cg .
and what came out of that was the first computer-generated software surface-figure ever to see in a movie .
and the film didn &apos;t bring in money , actually , he just played his cost of production , but i noticed something fascinating : the audience around the world was like hypnotized by the magic that went out of it .
arthur clarke &apos;s law is , you know , advanced technology and magic no longer distinguish from each other .
so they saw something magical .
and i found this incredibly exciting .
and i thought , &quot; wow , it &apos;s got to be involved in the art of film . &quot;
so we went to &quot; terminator 2 , &quot; my next movie , much further .
together with ilm , we created the guy out of liquid metal , and the success depended on how this effect would come .
and it worked . again , we had created something magical , and the effect in the audience was the same , but we &apos;ve already played a little bit more money with the movie .
you rented your phone . you didn &apos;t buy it .
from these two experiences , a whole new world was reached , a whole new world of creativity for film creators .
so i started a company with my good friend stan winston , who was the best makeup and creature-designer at that time , called digital domain .
the basic idea of this company was to skip the phase of analog processes with optical printers and so on and start with digital production .
and we did that , and we gave ourselves a competitive advantage for a while .
but in the mid- &apos; 90s , we realized that in creature- and design , we had actually started the company -- we were getting too slow .
i had written this piece , &quot; avatar , &quot; that the measurement of visual effects and computer-generated effects should be all over new heights , with realistic human , expressive characters made using the cg , and the main characters should all be cg , and the world should be cg .
but the measurement pole was pretty much pushing back , and the people in my company told me that we &apos;re not able to do this yet .
so i shifted this , and i made this other film about the big ship , which is underway .
i sold this as &quot; romeo and julia on a ship . &quot; it became a love movie of epic magnitude , a passionate movie .
but i really wanted to go down to the real wreck of the titanic .
what could be more lonely than being surrounded by silence , one of the last people of your people who speak your language , have no way to pass on the wisdom of the ancestors , or to expect the hope of children ?
one of the consequences of that was that the phone had never broken .
that &apos;s why i made the film .
that &apos;s the truth . the studio didn &apos;t know that .
but i convinced you by saying , &quot; we &apos;re diving to the wreck . we &apos;re filming the real wreck .
we &apos;re going to show it in the opening sequence of the movie .
it &apos;s incredibly important . it &apos;s a good follower for marketing . &quot;
and i convinced them to finance an expedition .
sounds crazy . but it goes back to the fact that your imagination can create a reality .
we actually created a reality six months later , where i found myself in a russian dive boat , four miles below the surface of the north atlantic , and i looked at the real titanic through a bulleye .
that wasn &apos;t a movie , no hd , that was real .
so , that really blew my mind .
these days are over .
and the preparation for that was enormous . we had to build cameras and headlights and all kinds of things .
and i noticed how much these deep sea dives , a space mission , looked like .
well , they were also highly technically , and they were allowed to do extensive planning .
you go up into this capsule , you float down into this dark , hostile environment , where there &apos;s no hope for rescue if you don &apos;t make it yourself back .
and i thought to myself , &quot; wow , that &apos;s like i &apos;m in a science fiction movie .
that &apos;s really cool . &quot;
i was actually obsessed with studying the deep sea .
anyway , from the part that has to do with curiosity and science , it was all . it was adventure , it was curiosity . it was imagination .
and it was an experience that hollywood couldn &apos;t give me .
because , you know , i could imagine a creature for which we could then create a visual effect , but i couldn &apos;t imagine what i would see outside the window .
we now have almost an infinite choice of telephones , especially in the mobile phone world .
in some of the following expeditions , i &apos;ve seen creatures in thermal sources , and sometimes things that i &apos;ve never seen before , sometimes things that nobody had ever seen before , and for science at the time that we saw them , had no words for it .
so that really flipped me around , and i wanted more .
and so i then made a slightly unusual decision .
after the success of titanic , i said , &quot; okay , i want to put my main job as a filmmaker in hollywood , and i &apos;m going to be a full-time researcher for a while . &quot;
and then we started to dive to the bismarck , and we explored them with robotics .
we went back to the wreck of titanic .
we took little robots that we built that wrapped a fiberglass cable .
our intention was to dive in and look at the inside of the ship that had never been done before .
no one had ever explored the inside of the wreck . you didn &apos;t have any means to do it , so we developed the technology that we needed .
well , i &apos;m now sitting on the deck of the titanic , in a dive boat , and i &apos;m looking at planks that look a little bit like this , and i know that the band was playing there .
these are the mobile phones of the future .
and i fly with a little robotic experience through the gears of the ship .
i &apos;m actually only serving it , but my consciousness is within the vehicle .
it felt like i was physically in the shipping wreck of the titanic .
this was the most surreal form of a déjna vu that i &apos;ve ever experienced , because before i bow around a corner each , i &apos;ve always known what was going to appear in the light bulb of the vehicle , because i was running through the movie set for months when we were shooting the film .
because the set was an accurate copy of the blueprints of the ship .
so this was a very strange experience .
she made me realize this telepresence experience that you can use such robotic avatars and so your own consciousness in the vehicle , into this other form of existence .
it was really , really profound .
and maybe a little bit of insight into what might happen in a few decades , if you have cyborg bodies to explore or do other things , in all sorts of post-humanities , which i can think of as a science fiction fan .
after these expeditions , we started to really appreciate what we saw down there , for example , these deep-sea sources , where we saw these incredibly amazing animals , which are sort of aliens , but here on earth .
my favorite one is the middle -- mp3 players , nase-haired trimmer and crème brablée fackel .
they live with chemosynthesis .
they don &apos;t exist in a sunlight based system like we do .
and so you see animals that are right next to a 500 degrees centigrade that they can survive there .
at the same time , i was also very interested in space science , which was again the science fiction influence of my childhood .
and so i ended up with the people who are interested in space and who have to do with nasa and sit in the nasa expertise council and plan real space missions , and they go to russia , and they go through the mission of biomedical protocols , and they go through it all , and they go to the international space station , and they take our 3d camera systems .
that was fascinating .
but at the end of the day , it was pointing out that i took space scientists with us into the deep sea .
i took them with me , and i shepherd them access to the world down there : astrobiologists , planetary scientists , people who were interested in such extreme situations , and i took them to the sources so they could look around , sample and test instruments and so on .
we did documentary , but actually did science , which is space science .
so the circle between my existence as a science fiction fan , then as a child , and the implementation to reality .
and if you haven &apos;t seen that in your business , you can be sure that you &apos;re going to be soon .
in the course of this journey of discovery , i learned a lot .
i &apos;ve learned a lot about science , but i certainly think now , a director has to be able to lead , be a leader like a ship captain or something .
but i didn &apos;t understand much about leadership before i entered these expeditions .
because at some point , i had to say to myself , &quot; what am i doing here ?
why do i do that ? what comes out of that ? &quot;
these silly films don &apos;t bring us any money .
we &apos;re going to play the cost of production . it &apos;s not a lane .
everybody thinks i was running away from &quot; titanic &quot; and &quot; avatar , &quot; and somewhere would have celebrated the nails on a towel on the beach .
i made all these films , these documentaries , for a very small audience .
no fame , no honor , no money . what are you doing ?
and what it does is it gets people to walk into business and ask this question .
you do it for the sake of the task , for the challenge -- and the ocean is the most challenging environment that &apos;s out there . you do it for the discovery , and because of the strange connection that comes when a small group of people form a team .
because we did all of this with just 10 to 12 people who worked uninterrupted for years , sometimes we were in lake for two to three months .
and in this community , you realize that the most important thing is the attention you have in front of each other , because you &apos;ve done a task that you can &apos;t explain to anyone else .
when you go back to land and you say , &quot; we had to do it , the fiberglass , the sound weakness , and all the way around it , all the technology , and the difficulty , the human capacity , if you work on lake , &quot; you just can &apos;t explain the other . this is like policemen or soldiers who have done something together and know that they can never explain it .
there &apos;s a connection , a mutual respect .
so when i came back to make my next film , &quot; avatar , &quot; i tried to apply the same kind of leadership , which is that you respect your team and you deserve the respect in the opposite .
it really changed the dynamics .
so i stood back with a small team on unknown terrain , and we turned &quot; avatar &quot; with a new technology that didn &apos;t exist before .
incredibly exciting .
it &apos;s an enormous challenge .
do you know what the answer to this question is ?
and we became a real family for a four-and-a-half years .
so my way of making films completely changed .
there were people who thought we &apos;d done these ocean creatures really well and transported them on the planet .
for me , it was more of a principle way of doing my job , the actual process that changed as a result .
so what can we conclude from all of this ?
what lessons did we learn ?
i think the first thing is curiosity .
it &apos;s the most powerful human property .
our imagination is a force that can even create a reality .
and the attention of your team is more important than any lorbeer in the world .
the answer is no .
to me , young filmmakers come to me and say , &quot; give me some advice on how to do this . &quot;
and i say , &quot; don &apos;t constrain yourself .
that gets you others . don &apos;t do it for yourself , don &apos;t bet for yourself . take risks for you . &quot;
nasa has a favorite sentence : &quot; failure is not an alternative . &quot;
but in art and in studying failing , it has to be an alternative , because there it guarantees a trustworker .
no important endeavor that demanded innovation was ever made without risk .
you have to be willing to take these risks .
that &apos;s the thought i &apos;d like to leave you with . failure is an alternative , but fear is not . thank you .
today i &apos;m talking to you about energy and climate .
and this may be surprising , because my full-time work at the foundation is mostly about vaccines and seeds to make things that we need to invent and deliver to the poorest two billion to make a better life .
it &apos;s not possible to buy a cell phone that doesn &apos;t do too much .
but energy and climate are extremely important for these people , in fact , more important than anyone else on the planet .
climate degradation means that their seeds are not going to grow over many years . it &apos;s too much or too little rain . things are going to change in the way that their fragile environment cannot sustain .
this leads to starvation . it leads to uncertainty . it leads to unrest .
so , a climate change is going to be terrible for you .
and also , the energy cycle for you is very important .
in fact , if you could only reduce the price from one thing , to the poverty reduction , energy would be far from the most effective .
well , the energy cycle has fallen over time .
in fact , the progress society is based on energy advances .
the coal evolution pushed the industrial revolution , and even in the 20th century , there was a rapid case in the power cycle , and so we have refrigerators , air conditioners , we can make modern materials and do so many things .
so we &apos;re in a wonderful situation of electricity in the rich world .
and yet , this horrible destiny actually happens to someone anywhere on earth , about every two weeks , because every two weeks , an elderly person dies and takes the last syllables of an old language to their grave .
in other aspects of life that are much more significant than buying objects , the same explosion of choice is true .
but if we reduce the price -- let &apos;s cut the price in half -- we &apos;re going to hit a new barrier , and that barrier is going to depend on co2 .
co2 heats the planet , and the equation for co2 is actually quite clear .
they summed out the co2 , which leads to temperature elevation , and that temperature increase has some very negative consequences , effects on the weather , and perhaps worse , the indirect consequence that the natural ecosystems can &apos;t adapt to such rapid changes , and so whole systems collapse .
now , the exact correlation between a co2 increase and the temperature change that comes from that , and where their other consequences are , there are some ambiguity , but not very many .
and there &apos;s certainly ambiguity about how bad these consequences are going to be , but they &apos;re going to be extremely bad .
i asked the top scientists several times , &quot; do we really have to get down to zero ?
isn &apos;t it half or a quarter ? &quot;
the answer is , until we get close to zero , the temperature will continue to increase .
so it &apos;s a big challenge .
it &apos;s very different from saying we have a 3.5 foot truck that has to be under a three-foot bridge , and you can sort of squeeze it .
health care -- it &apos;s no longer the case in the united states that you go to the doctor and the doctor tells you what to do .
this has to go down to zero .
well , we &apos;re releasing a lot of carbon dioxide every year , over 26 billion tons .
every american is about 20 tons . people from poor countries , less than one .
on average , it &apos;s about five tons for everyone on the planet .
and somehow we have to make changes that go down to zero .
it &apos;s been up all the time .
only different economic changes have changed it at all , and we have to go from rapidly to reducing and to a reduction to zero .
this equation has four factors . a little bit of multiplication . you have this thing on the left -- co2 -- that you want to get to zero , and that &apos;s going to depend on the number of people , on the services that every human being uses on average , the average energy for every service and the co2 that &apos;s emitted per unit of energy .
so let &apos;s look at each factor and think about how we get that to zero .
probably one of those numbers has to get very close to zero .
instead , you go to the doctor , and the doctor tells you , we could do a , or we could do b .
now that &apos;s basic algebra , but let &apos;s go through it .
first , we have the population .
today , 6.8 billion people live .
and it &apos;s heading to nine billion . it &apos;s moving to nine billion .
if we &apos;re very successful with new vaccines , health care and reproduction medicine , we could probably reduce that by 10 to 15 percent , but right now we see a slope by 1.3 .
the second factor is the services that we use .
that includes everything , the food we eat , clothing , television , heating .
these are very good things , and poverty reduction means making these services available to anyone on the planet almost .
it &apos;s great that this number is going up .
in the rich world , in the upper billion , we might be able to make arguments and make less use of it , but on average , that number is going to increase every year , and in total , more than double , the number of services that are being provided per person .
a has these benefits and risks .
here we see a very basic service . is there light at home so you can read the homework ?
and these students don &apos;t have it , so they go out and read their school assignments under the street light .
now , with efficiency , the e , the energy per service , there &apos;s finally good news .
we have something that doesn &apos;t go up .
because of various successes in the light sector , through other autotypes , through new methods in the building of the house , there &apos;s a lot of services , and their energy supply is going to reduce some of the services by 90 percent .
in other services , like fertilizing fertilizers , 105 : 05 : 56,000 -- &amp; lt ; 00 : 05 , 58,000 , or air traffic , or air traffic , the playroom for improvement is much smaller .
in total , if we &apos;re optimistic , we might get a reduction by a factor three or maybe even by a factor six .
but in the first three factors , we &apos;ve gone from 26 billion to maybe the very best 13 billion tons , and that &apos;s just not enough .
so let &apos;s look at the fourth factor -- and this is going to be a key factor -- that &apos;s the amount of co2 that &apos;s emitted per unit of energy .
it &apos;s a question of if you can get that to zero .
b has these benefits and risks . what do you want to do ?
if you burn coal , no .
if you burn natural gas , no .
almost every manufacturing method for electricity today emitts co2 , except for renewables and nuclear energy .
so , what we need to do at a global level is to create a new system .
we need energy miracles .
now , when i use the term &quot; miracle , &quot; i don &apos;t mean the impossible .
the microprocessor is a miracle . the pc is a miracle .
the internet and its service is a miracle .
people here have contributed to the development of many of these miracles .
there &apos;s usually no deadline that you need a miracle to a certain date .
and they say , &quot; doctor , what should i do ? &quot;
you &apos;re usually just wrong , and some are coming , some are not .
but in this case , we have to give full gas and get a miracle in very short time .
now , i wondered , how can i really bring this over ?
is there a natural illustration , a demonstration that sparks the idea of people here ?
i remembered last year when i brought mosquitos , and somehow people liked that .
the idea became really tangible for them , you know , there are people who live with mosquitos .
for energy , this is what i came up with .
i decided that leaving fireflies would be here for my year &apos;s contribution to the environment .
so here are some natural fireflies .
i &apos;ve been assured that they &apos;re not going to bite . in fact , they &apos;re not going to leave the glass .
the doctor says , a has these benefits and risks and b has these benefits and these risks .
well , there are all kinds of game solutions like this , but they don &apos;t get much .
we need solutions , either one or more , that have an unthinkable scaling and unthinkable reliability , and even though there are many directions that people are looking for , i really only see five that can afford these big demands .
i left the tides , the geothermal , the fusion and the biofuels .
these may be a modern contribution , and if you do better than i expect , that would be great , but my core statement here is that we have to work on all those five , and we can &apos;t give up any of them because they &apos;re intimidating us , because they all have significant problems .
let &apos;s first look at the burning of fossil fuels , burning either coal or natural gas .
what you have to do there may seem simple , but it &apos;s not . you have to capture all the co2 that comes out of the chimney after the burn , under pressure , and then you have to store somewhere and hope it stays there .
there are some pilot projects that can do this on a 60 percent -- 80 percent level , but it &apos;s going to be very difficult to get , and to get an agreement on the storage of co2 is a big challenge . but the biggest problem here is the overtime question .
who &apos;s going to make it safe ?
who can guarantee something that literally billions and billions of times larger than any kind of garbage you can imagine from nuclear and other things ?
that &apos;s a lot of volume .
what do you want to do ?
so this is a tough nut .
next , nuclear energy .
it also has three big problems . the cost , especially in high-regulated countries , is high . the question of security is that you really feel that nothing can go wrong , despite human participation , that the fuel is not used for weapons .
and then what do you do with the waste ?
because even though it &apos;s not very big , there &apos;s a lot of concerns .
so three very difficult problems that might be soluble , and that &apos;s why you should work .
i &apos;ve summarized the last three of the five .
it &apos;s renewables , as they &apos;re often called .
and they also have -- although it &apos;s great that they don &apos;t need fuel -- they have some disadvantages .
one is the energy density that these technologies generate dramatically lower than the power plants .
and if you said , &quot; if you were me , doctor , what would you do ? &quot;
these are energy farms , you talk about lots of square kilometers , thousands of times more land than a normal power station .
and these sources are also underlying interruptions .
the sun doesn &apos;t shine all day long , it doesn &apos;t shine every day , and it doesn &apos;t always hurt the wind .
so if you &apos;re dependent on these sources , you have to have a way to get the energy in times when it &apos;s not available .
so there are big challenges here . there are challenges in transmission , for example , if we say that the energy source is outside the country , you don &apos;t just need the technology , you also need to deal with the risk of energy coming from where else .
and there &apos;s the problem of storage .
and to show you the dimension , i &apos;ve looked at all sorts of batteries that are made , which for cars , computers , cell phones , flashlights , for everything , and i &apos;ve looked at the amount of electronic energy that the world is using , and i found that all the batteries that we &apos;re producing now could store less than 10 minutes of total energy .
so we need a big breakthrough here , something that &apos;s going to be about a factor of 100 better than the approaches that are coming in right now .
it &apos;s not impossible , but it &apos;s not that easy .
this is what happens when you try to bring these interrupted sources over 20 percent -- 30 percent of the consumption .
the doctor says , &quot; but i &apos;m not you . &quot;
if you want to support yourself 100 percent , you need an incredible miracle battery .
now , where are we going to go : what &apos;s the right approach ?
a manhattan project ? how do we get there ?
what we need is a lot of companies working on this . hundreds .
in each of these five areas , we need at least 100 people .
many people will say , they &apos;re crazy ! that &apos;s good .
i think there are many people here in the ted group who are already engaged .
bill gross has several companies , including one called esolar , that has great solar technologies .
vinod khosla investes in dozens of companies that do great things and have interesting opportunities , and i &apos;m trying to support that .
nathan myhrvold and i fund a company that , perhaps surprisingly , tracks the nuclear approach .
and i know some of you will say , &quot; isn &apos;t it better ? &quot; wouldn &apos;t the world be a better place if we all just talked a language ? &quot; and i say , &quot; well , let this language be yoruba . let it be cantonical .
the result is -- we call it &quot; patients autonomy . &quot; that sounds like a good thing , but in reality , a shift in the burden of the responsibility for making decisions from someone who knows something -- namely , the doctor -- to somebody who knows nothing and is most likely sick , and therefore not in the best constitution is to make a decision -- namely , the patient .
there are some innovations in the nuclear area ; modular , liquid .
the development in this industry stopped a while ago , so it &apos;s not a great surprise that some good concepts are lying around .
the terrapower-concept means that instead of a part of uranium , the one percent , the u235 , we decided to burn the 99 percent , the u238 .
this is a pretty crazy idea .
but in fact , you &apos;ve been thinking about it for a long time , but you could never make sense of whether it would work , but since there &apos;s modern supercomputers , you can simulate it and see that , yes , with the right material approach , it looks like it &apos;s working .
and because you burn this 99 percent , the cost profile is much better .
in fact , you burn the waste , and you can even use the waste of today &apos;s reactors as a fuel .
instead of breaking your head , you just burn it . it &apos;s a great thing .
the uranium is being used gradually , a little bit like a candle .
you can see that it &apos;s a kind of pillar , often called a &quot; walking wave &quot; reactor .
there &apos;s an enormous marketing for prescription drugs for people like you and me , which , if you think about it , doesn &apos;t make sense at all , because we don &apos;t buy them .
that really solves the fuel problem .
here &apos;s a picture of a place in kentucky .
this is the waste , the 99 percent . you have the part that &apos;s burned today , so it &apos;s called the utilized uranium .
this is what drives the u.s. for hundreds of years .
and if you make ocean water cheap and just filter , you get enough fuel for the rest of the planet &apos;s life .
you know , there are many challenges left , but it &apos;s an example of many hundreds of concepts that we need to get forward .
let &apos;s think about how we should measure our success .
what should our testimony look like ?
now , let &apos;s go to the goal that we have to reach , and then we talk about the intermediate step .
many people talk about an 80 percent reduction by 2050 .
why do they advertise around us if we can &apos;t buy ?
it &apos;s really important that we get there .
the rest of the 20 percent will be produced in poor countries , and still some agriculture , hopefully whale threats and cement will be clean .
so , in order to reach this 80 percent , the developed world , including countries like china , has to completely transform its electricity generation .
the other note says whether we use zero-emission technology , whether it &apos;s used in all the developed countries , and we &apos;re on the way to getting them to the rest .
that &apos;s terribly important .
this is going to be a key element of this stuff .
if we go back from there , what should that look like in 2020 ?
it should contain the two elements again .
we should use the efficiency measures to get reduction in the way , the less we emitt , the less the carbon dioxide will be , and therefore the temperature will be .
but in fact , this note for the things that we do that don &apos;t lead completely to the big reductions , just the same , or even a little less important as the other , which is the speed of innovation for these breakthroughs .
the answer is : you expect us to call the doctor the next morning and ask for a change in prescription .
we have to track these breakthroughs with all the gas , and we can measure this : in corporate numbers , in piloted projects and regulation changes .
there are a lot of great books on this topic .
the al gore book &quot; we have the choice &quot; and david mckey &apos;s &quot; sustainable energy without the hot air . &quot;
they really go through it and create a framework where this can be discussed , because we need support from all sides .
there are some things that need to come together .
this is a wish .
a very concrete wish that we invent this technology .
if you just gave me a wish for the next 50 years , i could choose the president , a vaccine , and i love that , or i could choose that wish , which is , halved energy cycle without co2 , i will take that wish .
this one has the biggest impact .
if we don &apos;t get that wish , the dig between the long term and the short-term people will be terrible between the united states and china , between the poor and the rich , and almost all of those two billion lives will be much worse .
something as profound as our identity is now a question of how this slide is supposed to show .
so what do we have to do ?
what kind of action do i appeal to ?
we need to go into more research funding .
if countries meet in places like coppenhagen , they shouldn &apos;t just talk about co2 .
you should discuss this innovation strategy , and you would be shocked by the ridiculously low funds that are spent on these innovative approaches .
we need market input , co2 taxes , cap &amp; amp ; trade , something that creates a price signal .
we have to spread the news .
we need to have dialogue more rational and more complete and also the things that are done by the government .
it &apos;s an important wish , but i think we can fulfill it .
thank you .
we don &apos;t inherit identity , we invent it .
thank you .
thank you . thank you .
thank you . just to understand terrapower a little bit better -- first of all , can you give us an idea of the scale of this investment ?
bill gates : to do the simulation on a supercomputer , to get all the big scientists , what we &apos;ve done , we just need some 10 million . and even if we &apos;ve tested our materials in a russian reactor to make sure it works reasonably , you &apos;re only in the 100 million .
the hard step is to build the first reactor to find another billion , the regularities and the place that actually builds the first one .
once the first one is done , when it &apos;s done like promising , it &apos;s all clear , because the economy , the energy density , is so different from nuclear , as we know it .
and to understand that , it means to build deep into the ground , almost like a vertical column of nuclear fuel , this consumed uranium , and then the process starts up and goes down ?
bg : right . now you have to refill the reactor , so there are a lot of people and a lot of controls that can go wrong . this thing where you open it up and put things in -- or out . that &apos;s not good !
but if you have very cheap fuel , you can fill it for 60 years -- think of a column -- that they &apos;re buried without all the complexity .
and it &apos;s sitting there and burning for 60 years , and then it &apos;s done .
and we are reinventing ourselves as often as we want .
a nuclear reactor that offers itself a solution to the waste .
bg : yeah . well , what happens to the garbage : you can let it sit -- there &apos;s much less waste with this method -- then you take it and put it in the next reactor and burn it on .
and we start by taking the waste that already exists , which is in these refrigerators or dry containers in the reactors . that &apos;s our starting fuel .
so what was a problem for these reactors is what we fill in , and it dramatically reduces waste volume during this process .
but while you &apos;ve talked to different people in the world about these possibilities .
where is the biggest interest in really doing this ?
bg : well , we haven &apos;t yet set ourselves to a place , and there &apos;s a lot of interesting rules of openness for everything that &apos;s called &quot; nuclear &quot; on behalf . there &apos;s a big interest , and the people of the company were in russia , india , china -- i was here , and i met the energy minister , and i talked about how this fits the energy agenda .
i &apos;m optimistic . you know , the french and the japanese did something in the direction .
this is a version of one thing that was made .
this is an important step forward , but it &apos;s like a faster reactor , and some countries have built this , so anyone who has implemented a fast reactor is a candidate for our first one .
that means that every day , if you wake up in the morning , you have to decide what kind of person you want to be .
in your mind , time frame and probability to really create something like this ?
bg : now we need one of these scalable , electricity generating things that are very cheap , we have 20 years to invent and then 20 years to use .
this is sort of the deadline that showed us the environmental models that we have to hold .
and , you know , terrapower , if everything is going well , and that &apos;s a big wish , could hold it easy .
and luckily today , there are dozens of companies , and we need hundreds that , as well as their approaches work , can provide the promotion for their pilots .
and it would be the best way to do it , because then you could use a mixture .
anyway , we need a solution .
given the great possible breakthroughs , is this the biggest thing you know ?
bg : an energy breakthrough is the most important .
it would have been without the environmental requirement , but it makes it so much more important .
in terms of marriage and family , there was a time when the standard assumption was that almost everybody had one , and they got married as fast as they could , and then children got as fast as they could .
in the nuclear sector , there are other innovative companies .
you know , we don &apos;t know their work as well as this , but there &apos;s the modular method , which is a different approach .
there &apos;s a liquid reactor , which seems a little bit difficult , but maybe they say that about us .
and so there are different things , but the beauty of this is that a uranium molecule has a million times as much energy as it is , say , a coal molecule , and therefore , if you can deal with the problems , and they &apos;re basically the radiation , the footprint and the cost , is the potential , so the impact on the land and other things , almost in your own league .
if that doesn &apos;t work , what ?
do we have to do emergency measures to try to keep the earth &apos;s temperature stable ?
bg : when you get into this situation , it &apos;s like eating too much , and it &apos;s just before you get a heart attack . what do you do ? you might need a heart surgery or something like that .
there &apos;s a research direction called geoengineering , which is focused on various techniques to delay global warming , so that we could get 20 or 30 years longer to go together .
this is just an insurance method .
you hope we don &apos;t need that .
the only real choice was who , not when , and not what they did after that .
some people say you shouldn &apos;t work on insurance at all , because that might make you lazy , so you keep eating , because you know you &apos;re going to save your heart surgery .
i don &apos;t know if that &apos;s smart , if you take the importance of this problem in front of you , but there &apos;s now a discourse in geoengineering about whether you should have that , if things get faster , or that innovation takes longer than we expect .
climakeptics : do you have one or two sentences for those who might convince you ?
bg : well , unfortunately , the skeptics live in very different camps .
those who make scientific arguments are very little .
do you say that there are negative impacts that have to do with the clouds , that shift things ?
there are very , very few things that you can even say , of which there &apos;s a chance in a million .
the main problem here is very similar to aids .
you make the mistake now , and you pay for it a lot later .
and so the idea is , now , if you have all kinds of urgent problems to invest in something that you have later -- and that &apos;s where the investment is not so clear . in fact , the ipcc report is not necessarily the worst scenario , and there are people in the rich world who are looking at ipcc and saying , okay , that &apos;s not a big drama .
let them be michael . &quot;
today , everything is easy to have .
the fact is that this uncertainty should make us worry .
but my dream here is that , if you can make it economic , and at the same time , the co2 is removing , the skeptics say , &quot; okay , i &apos;m not interested in it not emitting co2 , i wish it &apos;s doing it , but i &apos;m going to accept it because it &apos;s cheaper than the previous method . &quot;
and that would be your answer to the stock market lomborg argument that if you use all that time and all that energy to solve the co2 problem , all those other goals suffer from it , the poverty reduction , the malaria reduction , and so on , that there &apos;s a stupid waste of resources to invest money on it , while there are better things we can do .
bg : well , the actual spending on research -- let &apos;s say the u.s. should spend 10 billion more a year than they do today -- that &apos;s not so dramatic .
it should not suffer other things .
you get to big sums of money , and here you can disagree with reasonable people when you have something that &apos;s not economic , and you try to finance it , and for me , most of the waste is going on here .
unless you &apos;re very short before a cost breakthrough , and you &apos;re just funding the learning curve , and i think we should try more things that have the potential to be much cheaper .
if the abstrich you get is a very high energy cycle , then only the rich can keep up .
i mean , each of us here could spend five times as much on our energy without changing our lifestyle .
but for the bottom two billion , it &apos;s a disaster .
i teach wonderful intelligent students , and i give them 20 percent less work than i used to do .
and even lomborg thinks about it .
now his new pocket is , &quot; why isn &apos;t the research going to talk about anymore ? &quot;
he &apos;s still being associated with the skeptic camp because of his earlier stories , but he understood that this is a very lonely group , and so he &apos;s now making the research argument .
and this is a mindset that i think is appropriate .
research , it &apos;s just crazy how little that &apos;s being supported .
bill , i think i speak for almost all the people here when i say , i really hope that your wish will be true . thank you very much .
bg : thank you .
a few years ago , here at ted , peter skillman presented a design competition called &quot; the marshmallow challenge . &quot;
the idea is pretty simple . four teams have to build the largest free structure with 20 spaghetti , about six feet of tape , about three feet of thread and a marshmallow .
the marshmallow has to be on the top .
and it &apos;s not because they &apos;re less smart , not because they &apos;re less careful .
and even though it really seems really simple , it &apos;s really hard , because it urges people to work very quickly .
and so i thought this was an interesting idea , and i turned it into a design workshop .
it was a huge success .
since then , i &apos;ve done about 70 workshops around the world , with students , developers and architects , even with ctos of fortune 50-company companies , and there &apos;s something about this task that allows deep insights into the nature of collaboration , and i want to share some of them with you .
most people usually start to orient themselves in terms of the task .
you talk about it , you think about what it &apos;s going to look like , you &apos;re running around power .
then they spend a little bit of time in planning and organization , and they sketch and lay spaghetti out .
they spend a lot of their time in the assembly of constantly growing structures .
and finally , just before you don &apos;t have time , somebody takes the marshmallow , and they put it gently on the top , they step back and they go &quot; ta-da ! &quot; you admire your work .
but what happens , almost always , is that the ta-da becomes a &quot; uh-oh &quot; because the weight of the marshmallov causes the whole thing to bend and collapse .
it &apos;s because they &apos;re busy with other things , they &apos;re asking themselves , &quot; should i marry or not ? should i marry now ?
there are a number of people who have much more &quot; uh-oh &quot; moments than others , and among the worst is fresh bwl graduates .
they lie , they cheat , they &apos;re confused and they produce really droughts .
and of course , there are teams who have much more ta-da shapes , and among the best is fresh graduates of kindergarten .
and that &apos;s pretty amazing .
as peter told us , they not only produce the highest towers , but also the most interesting structures of all .
what you might ask is , how is that ? why ? what about those ?
and peter says , &quot; none of the children spend time being the spaghetti gmbh . &quot;
they don &apos;t spend time in power fights .
but there &apos;s another reason .
and that is that bwl students have been trained to find the right plan , ok !
should i marry later ? should i have children , or should i make a career ? &quot;
and then realizing it .
what happens when you put the marshmallow on the top , you don &apos;t have time , and what happens ?
it &apos;s a crisis .
sounds familiar , what ?
what makes children different is that they start with the marshmallow , and they build prototypes , successful prototypes , always with the marshmallow at the top , so that they have the opportunity to repair the badly prototype .
constructors recognize this kind of collaboration as the core of an iterative process .
and with every trial , the kids get immediate feedback about what works and what doesn &apos;t .
so the performance of working with prototypes is essential -- but let &apos;s see how different teams act .
the average for most people is about five inches , bwl students are creating half of them , a little bit more lawyers , but not much , kindergarten children are better than the adults .
who &apos;s the most successful ?
these are all engaging questions .
architects and engineers , fortunately .
1m is the highest thing i &apos;ve seen .
and why ? because they understand triangles and self-reinforcing geometric patterns are the key to building stable structures .
ceos is a little bit above average . but this is where it gets interesting .
if you put an executive administrator on the team , they get significantly better .
it &apos;s incredible . you look around and you realize , &quot; this team will win . &quot;
you can predict that . why is that ?
because they have special skills of the processing companion .
they run the process , they understand it .
and that team that is regulating and paying attention to the work will significantly improve the performance of the team .
and you &apos;re going to answer these questions regardless of whether this means doing all the tasks that i &apos;m going to show you and not get a good note in my class .
specialized skills and processing skills and their combination lead to success .
if you have 10 teams that are typical , you get about six that have stable structures .
now , i tried something exciting .
i thought , let &apos;s make the poker effort .
so i offered a $ 10,000 piece of software for the winners .
what do you think happened to these design students ?
what was the result ?
this is what happened . not a team had a stable structure .
if anyone had built a two-inch construction , they would have carried the price home .
so isn &apos;t it interesting that high competition has a strong effect ?
and in fact , you should do that . these are important questions to answer .
we repeated this exercise with the same students .
now , what do you think happened ?
now they understood the advantage of the prototyping .
so the same , bad team became one of the best .
they produced the highest construction in the least of the time .
so there are profound lessons for us , about the nature of drive and success .
you might ask : why would somebody actually spend time creating a marshmallow challenge ?
the reason is , i &apos;m helping create digital tools and processes to help teams create cars , video games and visual effects .
and what the marshmallow challenge does is it helps them identify hidden assumptions .
because frankly , every project has its own marshmallow .
work -- we &apos;re blessed as carl has shown , with the technology that allows us to work every minute from every place on the planet -- all the way to the randolph hotel .
the challenge provides a shared experience , a common language , or basic preservation , to build the right prototype .
and this is the value of this experience , this kind of simple practice .
and those of you who are interested in it can visit marshmallowchallenge.com .
it &apos;s a blog where you see the marshmallows building .
there &apos;s a step-by-step guidance there .
they find crazy examples from all over the world about how people optimize and refine the system .
there are also world record .
and the fundamental lesson , i think , is that construction is actually a connective sport .
it demands that we all focus our senses on the task , and that we use our thinking optimally , like our emotions and our doing , in the challenge that we face .
and sometimes a little prototype of this experience is everything that it takes to take us from a &quot; uh-oh &quot; -- to a &quot; ta-da &quot; moment .
there &apos;s a corner , by the way , that i &apos;m not going to tell you about that the wirelesslan works .
and that can make a big difference .
thank you .
we pretend we have a machine here .
a big machine , a cool , ted machine , and this is a time machine .
and everybody in this room has to go in .
and you can go to the past , you can go to the future ; you can &apos;t stay in here and now .
and i wonder what you would choose , because i often asked my friends this question recently , and they all wanted to go to the past .
i don &apos;t know . they wanted to go back to time before there were cars or twitter or &quot; america is looking for the superstar . &quot;
i don &apos;t know .
i believe that you &apos;re kind of drawn to nostalgia , to wonder .
and then you would suddenly realize what it would be like if you couldn &apos;t speak your own language .
i &apos;m not going to tell you because i want to use it .
and i understand that .
i &apos;m not part of this group , i have to say .
i don &apos;t want to go into the past , not because i &apos;m an adventurer .
it &apos;s because possibilities on this planet don &apos;t go back , they go forward .
so i want to go into this machine , and i want to go into the future .
this is the greatest time we &apos;ve ever had on this planet , no matter what scale they &apos;re going to do : health , wealth , mobility , opportunities , declining disease rates .
there was never a time ago like this .
my great-grandparents all died when they were 60 .
my grandparents pushed this number to 70 .
my parents are the 80 on the heels .
so what it means is that this incredible freedom of choice we have to make decisions in terms of work , over and over again , whether we should work or not work .
so there should be a nine in the beginning of my death row .
but it &apos;s not even about people like us , because this is a bigger thing than that .
a child born in new delhi today is expected to live as long as the richest man in the world 100 years ago .
think about it . that &apos;s an incredible fact .
and why is that ?
the smallpox . smallpox killed billions of people on the planet .
they have reformed the demographics of the earth in a way that no war has ever done .
they &apos;re gone . they &apos;re gone .
we defeated them . puff .
in the rich world , there are diseases that millions of us have only threatened one generation ago , hardly yet .
we can watch our kids play football , and we have our cell phone on one hip , and our blackberry on the other hip , and our laptop probably on our lap .
diphlet , root , child paralysis ...
does anybody know what that is ?
vaccines , modern medicine , our ability to feed billions of people , are successes of the scientific method .
and in my view , the scientific method of trying to do things is to see if it works , change it , if it doesn &apos;t , one of the greatest achievements in humanity .
so that &apos;s the good news .
unfortunately , that &apos;s the whole good news , because there are some other problems , and they &apos;ve been mentioned a lot .
and one of them is that , despite all of our achievements , a billion people in the world go to bed hungry every day .
that number goes up , and it goes up very quickly , and that &apos;s shame .
and not only that , we &apos;ve used our imagination to devastation this world .
drinking water , urable land , rainforests , oil , gas : they disappear , soon , and if we don &apos;t innovate from this chaos , we also disappear .
and even though you &apos;re all turned off , every minute we watch our child mutilating a football game , we also ask ourselves , &quot; should i take this call ?
so the question is : can we do that ? i think we can .
i think it &apos;s clear that we can produce food that will feed billions of people without the land that they live on .
i think we can power this world that doesn &apos;t destroy it at the same time .
i really believe that , and no , that &apos;s not a wonder .
but this is what keeps me awake at night -- one of the things that keeps me awake at night . we &apos;ve never used scientific progress as hard as we are , never yet .
and we &apos;ve never been able to use it properly as we can today .
we &apos;re at the threshold of amazing , amazing events in many areas , and yet i really think that we have to go back hundreds and 300 years before the enlightenment to find a time when we &apos;ve fought progress , where we &apos;ve been doing these things more deeply , to more fronts than now .
people are wrapping up in their faith , and it &apos;s so tight that you can &apos;t free them .
not even the truth will liberate it .
and listen , everybody has a right to their opinion , even a right to progress .
should i respond to this email ? should i write this letter ? &quot;
but you know what you &apos;re not right to do ?
they have no right to their own facts . &apos; sorry , they don &apos;t .
and i took a while to figure that out .
about a decade ago , i wrote an article about vaccinations for &quot; the new yorker , &quot; a little article .
and i was amazed to come across resistance , to the resistance of what ends up being the most effective thing in the health care system in human history .
i didn &apos;t know what to do , so i just did what i always do , i wrote an article , and i went on .
and soon after that , i wrote an article about genetically modified food .
the same thing , just bigger .
people were playing crazy .
so i also wrote an article about this , and i couldn &apos;t understand why people thought that this was frankenfood , why they believed that molecules were in a particular kind of random way , rather than pushing a coincidence in the field of nature .
and even though the answer to the question &quot; no , &quot; it &apos;s certainly your experience of the football game of your child is very different than it would have been .
but you know , i do what i do . i wrote the article , i went on .
i mean , i &apos;m a journalist .
we type , we go in , we eat , that &apos;s okay .
but i was worried about these articles , and i couldn &apos;t figure out why , and eventually i found out .
and that &apos;s because these fanatics who made me crazy were not fanatics at all .
these were thoughtful people , educated people , decent people .
they were just like the people in this room .
and that got me so confused .
but then i thought , you know what , let &apos;s face it .
we &apos;ve come to a point where we don &apos;t have the same relationship to progress as we used to .
everywhere we look , big things and small things , material things and lifestyle , life is a question of choice .
we talk about it twin .
we talk about it ironically , with little guides , &quot; progress . &quot;
okay , there are reasons , and i think we know what the reasons are .
we &apos;ve lost faith in institutions , in authority , and sometimes in science , and there &apos;s no reason why it shouldn &apos;t be .
you can just call some names and people will understand .
chernobyl , bhopal , challenger , vioxx , weapons of mass destruction , the u.s. presidential election in 2000 .
i mean , you know , you can choose your own list .
there are questions and problems with the people that we thought were always right . so be skeptical .
ask questions , ask for evidence , ask for evidence .
don &apos;t take anything for granted .
and the world we lived in looked like this .
but here &apos;s the thing : if you have to get the evidence , you have to take the evidence , and we &apos;re not good at that .
and i can say this because of the reason that we &apos;re now living in an epidemic of fear , as i &apos;ve never seen before , and hopefully never seen again .
about 12 years ago , a story was published , a horrible story that connected the autism epidemic to the masses , mumps , and rotten vaccine .
very scary .
well , studies were conducted to see if that was true .
well , studies should be conducted ; that &apos;s a serious issue .
the data came in .
the data came in from the united states , from england , from sweden , from canada , and they were all the same , no correlation , no connection , no connection .
it doesn &apos;t make any difference . it doesn &apos;t make any difference because we believe in anecdotes , we believe what we see , what we believe , what we really feel .
we don &apos;t believe in a bundle of documents from a government station that gives us data , and i understand that , i think we all do that .
so i mean , there were some choices , but not everything was a question of choice .
but you know what ?
the result of that was catastrophic .
catastrophic because of this fact : the united states is one of the only countries in the world where the vaccinators are falling for masses .
this is scandalous , and we should be ashamed .
it &apos;s terrible .
what happened was that we could do that .
well , i understand that . i do that .
because anybody here has masses ?
has a single person in the audience ever seen anyone die of masses ?
it doesn &apos;t happen very often .
and the world we live in now looks like this .
it doesn &apos;t happen at all in this country , but 160,000 times in the world last year .
that &apos;s a lot of deaths from masses , 20 an hour .
but because this didn &apos;t happen here , we can delay it , and people like jenny mccarthy can walk around and get messages from fear and illiteracy from platforms like oprah and larry king live .
and they can do that because they don &apos;t connect cause and correlation .
they don &apos;t understand that these things seem the same , but they almost never are the same .
and that &apos;s something we need to learn , and very quickly .
this guy was a hero , jonas salk .
he liberated us from one of the worst minds in humanity .
no fear , no source , child paralysis , puff , disappeared .
the guy in the middle is not so much .
so today , i want to take you on a journey through the ethnosphere , a short journey through the ethnosphere , to try to make you understand what &apos;s actually been lost .
and the question is , is that good news or bad news ?
it &apos;s called paul offit .
he &apos;s just developed a rotavirus vaccine with a few other people .
he can save the lives of 4,000 , 500,000 children a year in the developing world .
pretty good , right ?
now , that &apos;s good , besides paul walking around and talking about vaccines and saying how valuable they are , and people should just stop jamming .
and he actually says that .
so paul is a terrorist .
when paul talks in a public hearing , he can &apos;t say without armed guards .
he gets calls at home because people like to tell him that they know where his kids go to school .
and why ? because paul made a vaccine .
the answer is yes .
i don &apos;t need to say that , but vaccines are essential .
take it away , turn it back , horrible diseases , and that &apos;s what &apos;s happening .
we have masses in this country now .
and that gets worse , and pretty soon , children will die again , because that &apos;s just a question of numbers .
and they &apos;re not just going to die of masses .
what about child paralysis ? let &apos;s take that . why not ?
a commander of mine wrote me a few weeks ago , and she said i think i &apos;m a little bit shrimp .
no one ever said that before .
she wouldn &apos;t vaccinate her child against child paralysis . no way .
fine .
we all know what &apos;s good about it , so i &apos;m going to be bad at it .
why ? because we don &apos;t have child paralysis . and you know what ?
we didn &apos;t have child paralysis in this country yesterday .
today , i don &apos;t know , maybe somebody in lagos would go on an airplane this morning and fly to los angeles right now , he &apos;s over ohio .
and in a few hours , he lands and rents a car , and he comes to long beach , and he &apos;s going to visit one of these fantastic ted dinner tonight .
and he doesn &apos;t know that he &apos;s infected with a paralyzing disease , and we don &apos;t know , because that &apos;s how the world works .
this is the planet we live on . don &apos;t pretend it &apos;s not .
we love to wrap ourselves in lies . we love that .
did you take all your vitamins this morning ?
echinacea , a little antioxidantium that helps you jump .
i know they did it because half the americans do it every day .
all of these choices have two effects , two negative effects on people .
they take this stuff , and they take alternative cure , and it doesn &apos;t matter how often we find that it &apos;s useless .
the data is constantly showing this .
they evaporate their urine . they almost never do that .
that &apos;s okay , you want to pay 28 billion dollars for dark urine .
i totally agree with you .
dark urine . dark .
why do we do that ? why do we do that ?
well , i think i understand -- we hate the pharmaceutical industry .
we hate a too strong government . we don &apos;t have trust in the system .
and we shouldn &apos;t . our healthcare system is mies .
one effect , paradoxically , is that it paralyzes instead of liberating .
it &apos;s cruel to millions of people .
it &apos;s absolutely astonishingly cold and soulful to ourselves that can afford it .
so we &apos;re going away from that , and where are we going ?
we &apos;re going into the poor of the placebo industry .
that &apos;s great . i love the placebo industry .
but you know , this is really a serious issue , because this stuff is crap , and we spend billions of dollars on it .
and i have all kinds of little props here .
none of them -- gingko , fraud , echinacea , fraud , acai , i don &apos;t even know what that is , but we spend billions of dollars on it , it &apos;s fraud .
and you know what ? when i say that , people scream at me and say , &quot; what cares ? let people do what they want .
that &apos;s how you feel good . &quot;
with so many options you can choose , it makes people very hard to decide at all .
and you know what ? they &apos;re wrong .
because it doesn &apos;t matter to me whether it &apos;s the minister of health who says , &quot; hmm , i &apos;m not going to take the evidence of my experts to mammography , &quot; or any cancer quaker who wants to treat his patients with caffe-entry .
if you go on this path , where belief and magic replacing evidence and science , you get to a place where you don &apos;t want to be .
they get to thabo mbeki in south africa .
he killed 400,000 of his people because he insisted that red beds , bone and lemon oil are much more effective than antiretroviral drugs that we know can break the course of aids .
hundreds of thousands of unnecessary deaths in a country that &apos;s worse than any other one of this disease .
please don &apos;t tell me that these things don &apos;t have consequences .
they have them . they always have them .
now , the most brainless epidemic we &apos;re in right now is this absurd struggle between the proponents of genetically engineered food and the bio-elite .
this is an idiotic debate . it has to stop .
i &apos;m going to give you another dramatic example of this , a study of investing in volunteer retirement .
it &apos;s a debate about words , about metaphors .
that &apos;s ideology , not science .
everything we eat , every rice , every branch of petersilence , every rose , was changed by the people .
you know , there were no mandarin paradise .
there were no cantaloupe-melons .
there were no christmas trees . we did it all .
we &apos;ve done it in the last 11,000 years .
and some of it worked and some of it didn &apos;t work .
we got rid of what didn &apos;t work .
now we can make it closer . and of course , there are risks , but we can do something like vitamin a in rice , and this stuff can help millions of people increase their lives .
a colleague of mine had access to investment records of vanguard , the giant fund society of about a million employees and about 2,000 different jobs .
you don &apos;t want to do that ?
i have to say , i don &apos;t understand that .
we reject genetically engineered food .
why do we do that ?
now , what i hear all the time is : too many chemicals , pesticides , hormones , monoculture , we don &apos;t want a huge field with one thing , that &apos;s wrong .
we don &apos;t want companies to patent life .
we don &apos;t want companies to have seeds .
and you know what my answer to all of this is ?
yeah , you &apos;re right . let &apos;s fix that .
it &apos;s true , we have a huge food problem , but that &apos;s not science .
and what she found was per 10 investment fund that the employer offered , took the participation by two percent .
it has nothing to do with science .
it &apos;s right , morality , patent stuff .
you know , science is not a company .
it &apos;s not a country .
it &apos;s not even an idea ; it &apos;s a process .
it &apos;s a process , and sometimes it doesn &apos;t work , and sometimes it doesn &apos;t work , but the idea that we shouldn &apos;t allow science to do its work because we &apos;re afraid of it being a real dead end , and it holds millions of people off the flourishing .
you know , in the next 50 years , we &apos;re going to have to grow 70 percent more food than at the moment . 70 percent .
this investment in africa over the last 30 years .
shame . embarrassing .
they need that , and we don &apos;t give it to them .
you &apos;re offering 50 investment fund -- 10 percent less employees than if they were just offering five . why ?
and why ? genetically modified food .
we don &apos;t want to encourage people to eat this rotten stuff , like maniok .
maniok is something that half a billion people eat .
it &apos;s kind of like a potato .
it &apos;s just a bunch of calories . it &apos;s mies .
it doesn &apos;t have nutrients , it doesn &apos;t have protein , and scientists are building all that in it .
and then people could eat the food and would not be blind .
you wouldn &apos;t starve , and you know what ?
that would be nice . it wouldn &apos;t be chez panisse , but it would be beautiful .
and all i can say to that is , why do we fight that ?
we &apos;re all born . we &apos;re bringing children to the world .
now , there are some of us who kind of forget that when i say , &quot; different possibilities of being , &quot; really different possibilities of being .
because it &apos;s 50 investment fund , which is the choice , it &apos;s so hard to decide which one to choose , to put it on tomorrow .
i mean , let &apos;s ask : why do we fight this ?
because we don &apos;t want to push genes around ?
it &apos;s not about pushing genes around . it &apos;s not about chemicals .
it &apos;s not about our ridiculous passion for hormones , our insights for larger food , better food , unique food .
it &apos;s not about rice krispies , it &apos;s about keeping people alive , and it &apos;s about time to understand what that means .
because you know what ?
if we don &apos;t do that , if we continue to do it the way we do , we &apos;re guilty of something that i think we don &apos;t want to be guilty of , high-tech colonialism .
there &apos;s no other description of what &apos;s going on here .
it &apos;s selfish , it &apos;s ugly , it &apos;s our non-worthy , and we really have to stop it .
so after this incredibly funny conversation , you might want to say , &quot; do you still want to go into this ridiculous time machine and into the future ? &quot;
and then tomorrow , and then tomorrow , tomorrow , and tomorrow , and tomorrow , of course , never comes .
anyway . i certainly want that .
right now , it &apos;s in the present , but we have an incredible opportunity .
we can put this time machine on everything we want .
we can move them where we want to move them , and we &apos;re going to move them where we want to go .
we have to have these conversations , and we have to think , but when we get into the time machine and go into the future , we &apos;re going to be happy to have done that .
i know that we can , and as far as i &apos;m concerned , that &apos;s something that the world needs now .
thank you .
thank you .
i &apos;ve been interested in the placebo effect for a while , and it may seem strange that a magician is interested in it , unless you look at it like me , &quot; a deception that becomes real when someone believes it enough . &quot;
in other words , sugar pills have shown a measurable effect in some studies , the placebo effect , just because the person thinks what happens to her is a pharmaceutical or a kind of ... in pain management , for example , if the patient believes only enough , there &apos;s a measurable effect in the body called the placebo effect .
understand that it &apos;s not just that people have to eat dog food when they go to retirement , because they don &apos;t have enough money to put back , it also means making decisions is so hard that they miss large investment offers of their employers .
a deception becomes real because somebody perceives it that way .
so in order to understand each other , i want to show you a very simple , simple magic trick .
and i &apos;m going to show you how it works . this is a trick that is at least in every children &apos;s magic book since the 1950s .
i learned him from the cub scout magic of the path finder in the 1970s .
i &apos;m going to do it for you and then explain it .
and then i &apos;ll explain why i explain it .
so , look what happens .
the knife you can study , my hand you can study .
i &apos;m just going to keep the knife in my hand like this .
i push my sleeves back .
by not participating , they give up to 5,000 dollars a year on the employer who would have been happy to make their contribution .
and to make sure that nothing disappears in my sleeve or comes out of it , i &apos;m just going to put my wrist together right here .
so you can see that there &apos;s nothing going on at any time , and as long as i press here , nothing can go into my sleeves or come out .
and the goal is very simple .
i &apos;m going to open my hand , and hopefully , if everything goes well , the knife is held by my mere physical magnetism .
it &apos;s actually so stuck in its place that i can shake it without the knife falling down .
nothing goes into my sleeve , or comes out , no animation , and you can study everything .
ta-da !
now , this is a trick that i often teach little kids who are interested in magic , because you can learn a lot about deception when you look more closely , even though it &apos;s a very simple trick .
probably many of you in this room know this trick .
this is how it works .
paralysis is a consequence of too many choices .
i hold the knife in my hand .
i say that i &apos;m going to close my wrist to make sure that nothing disappears or comes out in my sleeves , and that &apos;s a lie .
the reason i hold my wrist is because there &apos;s the real mystery of illusion in it .
because the moment i turn my hand away from you , so you can see it from the back , this finger is moving , my index finger , just from where it was , into a position where it &apos;s so extended .
great trick ?
there &apos;s somebody sitting in the back who didn &apos;t have a childhood .
so , it &apos;s here . right .
and when i turn around , the finger changes its position .
and now you could talk about why this is a deception , why you don &apos;t perceive that there are only three fingers down here : because the mind and the way it process information doesn &apos;t count information , one , two , three , but see it as a group .
but that &apos;s actually not what it &apos;s about now . and then i open my hand .
and i think it makes the world look like this .
of course , it &apos;s stuck there , but not through the magnetism of my body , but through a trick , through my index finger , which is now there .
and when i close my hand , the same thing happens by turning back , it &apos;s hidden by this movement that the finger is moving back .
i take this hand away . and here &apos;s the knife .
this trick you can demonstrate to your friends and neighbors . thank you .
now , what does this have to do with the placebo effect ?
a year ago or so , i read a study that really blew my mind .
i &apos;m not a doctor or a researcher , and that &apos;s why it was an amazing thing for me .
because what it turns out is that if you offer placebo in the form of a white pill , in the form of an aspirine pill , it &apos;s just a round , white pill that has a certain measurable effect .
but if you change the shape in which you give the placebo , for example , into a smaller pill , and you colored these blue pill and you shape a letter on it , it &apos;s actually more effective .
and this , even though none of these are any pharmaceutical -- it &apos;s just sugar pills .
you really want to make the decision right if it &apos;s for all eternity , right ?
but a white pill is not as good as a blue pill .
what ? that really freaked me out .
but it turns out that that &apos;s not all .
if you take capsules , they &apos;re even more effective than pills of every form .
a colored capsule , which is yellow at one end and on the other red , is better than a white capsule .
the dose also plays a role .
a pill twice a day is not as good as three pills -- i can &apos;t remember the exact statistics . i &apos;m sorry .
but the key thing is ...
... that the doses also play a role .
and the shape plays a role .
they don &apos;t want to choose the wrong investment fund , or even the wrong salad ring .
and if you want to have the ultimate placebo effect , you have to reach out to the needle .
right ? a syringe with an ineffective -- a few milliliters of an ineffective substance that you inject to a patient .
this creates a very strong picture in the head . this is much stronger than a white pill .
this graph is really -- i &apos;m going to show you another time when we have a projector .
so the fact is that the white pill doesn &apos;t work as well as the blue pill that doesn &apos;t work as well as a capsule that doesn &apos;t work as well as the needle .
and none of it has any really pharmaceutical property , and it &apos;s just our belief that has a stronger effect in it .
i wanted to know if i could use this idea for a magic trick .
i take something that &apos;s obviously a deception , and i make it look real .
well , we know from this study that you have to reach out to the needle when it &apos;s supposed to go .
this is an 18-inch hat needle . it &apos;s very , very sharp , and i &apos;m going to sterilize it a little bit first .
so that &apos;s the one effect . the other effect is that even if we overcome the paralysis and make a decision , we end less happy with the outcome of choice than if we had had the opportunity to choose between less possibilities .
this is really my meat . it &apos;s not damians &apos; special cultured meat .
this is my skin . this is not a special effect of hollywood .
now , i &apos;m going to put this needle in my skin and drive it through , until it returns on the other side .
if you &apos;re going to be lush -- if you &apos;re going to fall lightly in the ear -- i did this a couple of friends last night in the hotel room , and some people i didn &apos;t know , and a woman has become almost audacious .
so i propose that if you &apos;re going to be lushing fast , you &apos;re going to look away for the next 30 seconds , or , you know , i &apos;m going to do the first healing part here in the back .
you can see it in a moment , but you can also look away , if you want .
so , it goes like this , right here , where my flesh starts , at the bottom of my arm , i &apos;m just going to make a little einstein .
i &apos;m really sorry . is it crazy ?
and now just a little bit through my skin and on the other side like this .
now we &apos;re actually in the same situation that we had in the measurement trick .
and there are several reasons for this .
about that .
but now you can &apos;t count my fingers , right ?
so , i &apos;m going to show you . this is one , two , three , four , five .
well , yeah .
i know what people think when they see that .
they say , &quot; okay , it &apos;s not that stupid , and it &apos;s going through itself , just to give us a few minutes of entertainment . &quot;
well , then i &apos;m going to show you .
what does this look like ? pretty good .
yeah , i know .
and the people in the back say , &quot; okay . i didn &apos;t really see that . &quot;
take this child of the barasana , for example , in the northwest of the amazon , the people of the anakonda , believe that mythologically they came up with the milk flow from the east in the belly of sacred snakes .
one of them is caused by the great choice of different salatdressings , if you buy one , and it &apos;s not perfect -- and what is the salatdressing perfect ? it &apos;s easy to imagine that you could have made a different decision that would have been better . and what happened is this visually predetermined alternative leads you to regret the decision , and that regret is negative to the satisfaction that you made by your decision , even though it was a good decision .
people in the side rooms are coming in now .
let me show you from near .
this is really my skin . this is not a special effect of hollywood .
that &apos;s my meat , and i can spin that around .
i &apos;m sorry . if you get evil , look away , don &apos;t look .
the people in the back , or the people who see that later on , will say , &quot; well , that looks pretty impressive , but if it were real , it would -- look , here &apos;s a hole and there , if it was real , it would bleed . &quot;
okay , let me just squeeze some blood for you .
yeah , here it is .
i would normally take the needle out now .
i would clean my arm and show you that there are no wounds .
the more possibilities there are , the easier it is not to regret anything that is disappointing to the choice that they make .
but i think , in this frame here and with the intention of making something real out of a deception , i &apos;m just going to leave the needle in there and go off the stage .
we &apos;re going to meet a few more times in the next few days .
i hope you &apos;ll enjoy it . thank you very much .
everybody is talking about happiness today .
i &apos;ve made some people count the number of books that were published with happiness in the title in the last five years , and they spent about 40 , and there &apos;s a lot more .
there &apos;s a tremendous wave of interest in happiness among researchers .
there &apos;s a lot of happiness coaching .
everybody would like to make people happier .
but despite all this flood of work , there are several cognitive traps that sort of make it almost impossible to think about happiness .
and my talk today is mostly going to be about these cognitive traps .
second , what economists call the oppertune cost .
this is true for laymen who think about their own happiness , and it &apos;s true for scientists who think about happiness , because it turns out that we &apos;re just as confused as everyone else .
the first of these falls is a contradiction to admit complexity .
it turns out that the word happiness is simply not a useful word anymore because we apply it to too many different things .
i think there &apos;s a certain meaning that we could confine it to , but by and large , that &apos;s something that we need to give up , and we &apos;re going to have to take the complicated view of what well-being is .
the second trap is a distinction of experience and memory : basically it &apos;s between being happy in his life and being happy about his life or happy with his life .
and these are two very different concepts , and they &apos;re both thrown together in the idea of happiness .
and the third is the focus illusion , and that &apos;s the unfortunate fact that we can &apos;t think about a circumstance that affects well-being without distorting its meaning .
i mean , this is a real cognitive trap .
there &apos;s just no way to get it right .
now , i &apos;d like to start with an example of someone who had a question and answer session after one of my lectures that reported a story . &#91; unclear &#93; he said he had heard a symphony , and it was absolutely wonderful music , and at the end of the recording , there was a terrible circular sound .
dan gilbert made a big point this morning by telling the story of how much the way we evaluate things depends on what we compare it .
and then he added , really quite emotionally , that ruined the whole experience .
but it didn &apos;t have that .
what it had ruined was the memories of the experience .
he had the experience .
he had 20 minutes of glorious music .
they didn &apos;t count because he was in love with a memory ; the memory was ruined , and the memory was all he had gotten to keep .
what this really tells us is that we could think about ourselves and other people in the sense of two kinds of self .
there &apos;s a living self that lives in the present and knows the present , is capable of experiencing the past , but basically has the present .
it &apos;s the living self that the doctor is asking -- you know , when the doctor says , &quot; is it hurting now when i look at you here ? &quot;
and then there &apos;s a remembering self , and the memory itself is the one that counts and receives the history of our lives , and it &apos;s the one that the doctor addresses by asking the question , &quot; how did you feel lately ? &quot;
well , if there &apos;s a lot of alternatives to think about , it &apos;s just to imagine attractive properties of alternatives that you exclude , that makes you less happy with the alternatives that you chose .
or , &quot; what was your journey to albania ? &quot; or something like that .
these are two very different units , the living self and the remembering self , and the two of them are part of the consensus of happiness .
now , the memory itself is a storyteller .
and this really starts with a fundamental reaction to our memories -- it starts right away .
we don &apos;t just tell stories when we make ourselves to tell stories .
our memory tells us stories , which means what we can keep from our experiences is a story .
and let them start with an example .
there &apos;s an old study .
these are real patients undergoing a painful procedure .
i &apos;m not going to go into the details . it &apos;s not painful today , but it was painful when this study was done in the 1990s .
here &apos;s an example . for those of you who are not new yorkers , i apologize .
they were asked to report their pain every 60 seconds .
and here are two patients . these are their records .
and they &apos;re asked , &quot; who suffered more ? &quot;
and that &apos;s a very simple question .
patient b clearly suffered more . his intestine was longer , and every minute of pain that patient a had had with patient b , and more .
but now there &apos;s another question : &quot; how much did these patients think they were suffering ? &quot;
and here &apos;s a surprise .
and the surprise is that patient a had a much worse memory of the gut reflection than patient b .
the stories of the gut reflections were different , and because a very important part of the story is how it ends .
and none of these stories are very inheritable or great -- but one of them is that clear ...
but here &apos;s what you should have thought .
but one of them is far worse than the other .
and the one that &apos;s worse was where the pain was at the very end of its peak . it &apos;s a bad story .
how do we know that ?
because we asked these people about their gut reflection , and also much later , &quot; how bad was the whole thing ? &quot;
and she was much worse for a than for b in memory .
now , this is a direct conflict between the living self and the memorable self .
from the perspective of the living self , b clearly had a worse time .
now , what you could do with patient a , and we actually did clinical experiments , and it &apos;s been done , and it works , you could actually extend the reflection of patient a by simply letting the tube in without shaking too much on it .
that &apos;s going to lead the patient to suffer , but only a little bit less than before .
and if you do that for a few minutes , you make sure that the patient a &apos;s living self is worse off , and you &apos;ve made the memory that patient a &apos;s own is much better off , because now you &apos;ve given patient a a a better story about your experience .
here &apos;s a couple on the hampton .
what is a story about ?
and that &apos;s true of the stories that memory provides us , and it &apos;s also true of the stories that we invent .
what a story is about is outbreaks , meaningful moments and ending .
end is very , very important , and in this case , the end dominated .
now , the living self lives its life continuously .
it has moments of life , one by one .
and you ask , what happens to these moments ?
and the answer is really simple . they &apos;re lost forever .
i mean , most of the moments of our lives -- and i &apos;ve calculated that -- you know , the psychological presence is about three seconds , which means there are about 600 million of them in a life . in a month , there are about 600,000 . most of them don &apos;t leave any trace .
most of you are completely ignored by the memory itself .
very expensive real estate .
and yet , you get the sense that you should count that what happened during those moments of life is our lives .
it &apos;s the limited resource that we use while we &apos;re in this world .
and how we used it would seem to be important , but that &apos;s not the story that keeps the memory of ourselves .
so we have the memory itself and the living self , and they &apos;re really quite different .
the biggest difference between them is the process of time .
from the perspective of the living self , if you have a vacation and the second week is just as good as the first , then the two week vacation is twice as good as the weekly vacation .
that &apos;s not how it works for the memory itself .
for the memory itself , a two-week vacation is hardly better than the weekly vacation , because there &apos;s no new memories to be added .
they didn &apos;t change the story .
and in this way , time is actually the critical variable that distinguishes a memory self from a living self , and time has very little influence on this story .
beautiful beach . great day . you have it all for yourself .
now , memory itself is doing more than remembering and telling stories .
it &apos;s actually the one that makes decisions , because if you have a patient who , say , had two gut reflections in two different surgeons and decides which one to choose , it &apos;s the one who chooses who has the memory that &apos;s less bad , and that &apos;s the surgeon who &apos;s going to be selected .
the living self has no voice in this choice .
in fact , we don &apos;t choose experiences . we choose memories of experiences .
and even when we think about the future , we don &apos;t usually think of our future as an experience .
we think about our future as predicted memories .
and basically , you can look at this , you know , as a tyranny of the memory itself , and you can think of the memory itself as one that sort of draws the living self through experiences that don &apos;t need the living self .
i have the impression that if we do vacation , it &apos;s very often the case , that is , we &apos;re doing vacation largely in the service of the memory itself .
and that &apos;s a little hard to justify , i think .
i mean , how much are we eating from our memories ?
this is a people who are not cognitively different from the colors of blue and green , because the celestial scene is the forest that people depend on .
what could be better ? &quot; the man thinks , &quot; it &apos;s august .
this is one of the explanations that is given for the dominance of memory itself .
and when i think about it , i think of a vacation that we did a few years ago in antarctica , which was clearly the best vacation i &apos;ve ever had , and i think quite often in relation to how many times i think of other vacations .
and i &apos;ve probably taken my memories to this three-week journey , i would say for about 25 minutes in the last four years .
now , if i had ever opened the folder with the 600 images in it , i would have spent another hour .
well , that &apos;s three weeks , and that &apos;s only one and a half hours .
there seems to be a disagreement .
now , i may be a little extreme , you know , how little appetizes do i have on the toes of memories , but even if you make more of it , there &apos;s a real question . why do we give memories so much weight in the spirit to the weight that we give experiences ?
so i want you to think about a thought experiment .
imagine your next vacation , you know , at the end of the vacation , all of your images are being annihilated , and you get an amnesiac drug so you don &apos;t remember anything .
now , would you choose the same vacation ?
everybody in my manhattan neighborhood is gone .
and if you were to choose another vacation , there &apos;s a conflict between your two kinds of self and you have to think about how you decide this conflict , and that &apos;s really not obvious at all , because if you &apos;re thinking about time , you get an answer , and if you think about memories , you might get a different answer .
why we choose the vacation that we choose is a problem that we face with a choice between the two types of self .
now , the two types of self are throwing two terms of happiness .
there are actually two concepts of happiness that we can apply , one per self .
so you can ask : how happy is the living self ?
and then you would ask : how happy are the moments in the life of the living self ?
and they &apos;re all -- happiness for moments is a pretty complicated process .
what are the emotions that can be measured ?
and , by the way , we &apos;re now able to get a pretty good idea of the happiness of the living self over time .
if you ask about the luck of memory itself , it &apos;s a very different thing .
i could park right in front of my house . &quot;
that &apos;s not how happy a person lives .
it &apos;s about how happy or pleased the person is when that person thinks about their lives .
very different terms .
anyone who doesn &apos;t distinguish these terms will mash the study of happiness , and i &apos;m part of a lot of researchers about well-being who have long massed the exploration of happiness in the same way .
the distinction between the happiness of the living self and the happiness of the memory itself has been recognized in the last few years , and now you &apos;re trying to measure the two separate .
the gallup organization has a global survey where more than half a million people have been asked questions about what they think about their lives and about their experiences , and there were other efforts in the direction .
so in the last few years , we &apos;ve started to learn about the happiness of the two types of self .
and the main lesson that i think we &apos;ve learned is that they &apos;re really different .
you can know how happy someone is with their life , and it really doesn &apos;t teach you how happy they live their lives and vice versa .
just to give you a sense of correlation , the correlation is about .5 .
and he spends two weeks from the thought that he has missed the possibility of having a great parking lot , day after day .
what does that mean is that if you met someone and you told them , oh , his father is a two-meter man , how much would you know about his size ?
well , you would know something about its size , but there &apos;s a lot of uncertainty .
they have so much uncertainty .
if i tell you that somebody has put their lives as eight on a scale of 10 , they have a lot of uncertainty about how happy they are with their own living selves .
so the correlation is low .
we know something about what the happiness of the happiness itself is .
we know money is very important , goals are very important .
we know that happiness is mainly about being satisfied with people we like to spend time with people we like .
there are other pleasures , but that &apos;s dominant .
so if you want to maximize the happiness of the two types of self , you will end up doing very different things .
oppertune costs reduce the happiness that we get from our selection , even though what we &apos;ve chosen is fantastic .
the conclusion of what i said here is that we really shouldn &apos;t think of happiness as a replacement for well-being .
it &apos;s a completely different term .
now , very briefly , another reason that we can &apos;t think about happiness clearly is because we don &apos;t pay attention to the same things when we think about life and when we actually live .
so if you ask the simple question , how happy are the people in california who are not going to get the correct answer ?
if you ask this question , you think that the people in california have to be happier if they live , say , in ohio .
and what happens is that when you think about the life of california , you think about the difference between california and other places , and that difference is , say , in climate .
well , it turns out that climate is not very important for the living self , and it &apos;s not even very important for the thoughtful self that decides how happy people are .
now , because the thoughtful self is responsible , you can end up -- some people could end up going to california .
and it &apos;s kind of interesting to track what happens to people who go to california in hope to get happier .
now , your living self is not going to get happier .
and the more options there are , the more attractive properties of this choice are taken into the oppertune cost .
we know that .
but one thing will happen . you &apos;ll think you &apos;re happier , because if you think about it , you &apos;ll be reminded of how horrible the weather was in ohio , and you &apos;ll feel that you made the right decision .
it &apos;s very difficult to think clearly about well-being , and i hope i &apos;ve given you a sense of how difficult it is .
thank you .
thank you . i have a question for you .
thank you .
now , when we were talking a few weeks ago , they told me that there was a pretty interesting outcome that came out of this gallup poll .
is this something you can let us participate in , because you have a few minutes left now ?
daniel kahneman : sure .
i think the most interesting result that we found in the gallup survey is a number that we absolutely didn &apos;t expect to find .
here &apos;s another example .
we found that in terms of the happiness of the living self .
when we looked at how feelings vary with income .
and it turns out that under an income of 60,000 dollars a year , for americans , and that &apos;s a very large sample of americans , about 600,000 , but it &apos;s a big sample of representative sample , under a 600,000 dollars a year .
60,000 .
dk : 60,000 .
60,000 dollars a year , people are unhappy , and they get increasingly unhappy , the poorer they get .
we get an absolutely flat line on that .
i mean , i rarely saw flat lines .
what happens is obviously that money doesn &apos;t give you an experience of happiness , but that lack of money will give you misery , and we can measure that misery very , very clearly .
in the sense of the other self , of the memory itself , you get a different story .
now , this cartoon makes some statements .
the more money you make , the more happy you are .
that &apos;s not true of emotions .
but danny , the whole american aspiration is about life , freedom , the pursuit of happiness .
if people took this finding seriously , i mean , it all seems to turn on its head , everything we believe , for example , in terms of tax policy and so on .
is there a chance that politicians that the country would generally take a fund like the seriousness and make it based on politics ?
dk : you know , i think there &apos;s recognition for the role of happiness in politics .
the recognition will be slow in the united states , not a question , but in the united kingdom , it &apos;s happening right now , and in other countries , it &apos;s happening .
people are about to recognize that they should be thinking about happiness when they think about politics .
it &apos;s going to take a while , and people will discuss whether they want to explore experience happiness , or whether they want to explore life review , so we have to have this discussion pretty soon .
how you can increase happiness is very different from how you think , and whether you think of the memory of yourself , or whether you think of the living self .
he makes a statement about living in the now , and maybe doing things slowly .
that &apos;s going to affect politics , i think , in the coming years .
in the united states , you &apos;re struggling to measure the experience happiness of the population .
that , i think , will be part of the national statistics in the next decade or two .
well , it seems to me that this topic is going to be , or at least the most interesting political debate for pursuing over the next few years .
thank you for the invention of behavioral economics .
thank you , danny kahneman .
i &apos;m jane mcgonigal . i design computer games .
i &apos;ve been developing online games for 10 years now , and my goal for the next decade is to make it as easy to save the world in reality as it is in online games .
i have a plan for it . i want to convince more people , including all of you , to spend more time playing bigger and better games .
right now we spend three billion hours a week playing online .
but one of the things that he does is , whenever you decide for one thing , you don &apos;t choose not to do other things .
some of you may be thinking , &quot; that &apos;s a lot of time for games . &quot;
maybe a little too much time when you think about how many problems we have to solve in the real world .
but in fact , my research at the institute of the future is the exact opposite .
three billion hours a week are not nearly enough to solve the world &apos;s most urgent problems .
in fact , i &apos;m convinced that if we want to survive the next century on this planet , we need to dramatically increase that time .
i &apos;ve calculated that the time it takes is 21 billion hours of play per week .
this may seem a little bit devastating , so i repeat it so that it can work : if we want to solve problems like hunger , poverty , climate change , global conflict and obesity , i think we need to try to play games online for at least 21 billion hours a week to the end of the next decade .
no , i &apos;m really serious .
why ? this picture pretty much describes why i think games are so essential to the survival of the human species in the future . seriously .
this is a portrait of photographer phil toledano .
they have a strange language and a marriage rule called linguistic exogamy : you have to marry someone who speaks a different language .
and these other things may have a lot of attractive properties , and it becomes what they &apos;re going to do less attractive .
he wanted to capture the emotions in play , so he built a camera in front of the players .
this is one of the classical expressions of play .
if you &apos;re not a player , you might have some of the nuances in this picture .
you probably see this sense of urgency , a little bit scared , but also external concentration , deeply immersed in solving a really hard problem .
if you also play , you see some nuances here , looking up the eyes , and the mouth is a sign of optimism , and the eyebrows show surprise .
this is a player standing on the edge of what &apos;s called an epic victory .
oh , you know that . ok . fine . so we have some players here .
an epic victory is a result that is so super-positive that they didn &apos;t even know that it was possible at all .
it was almost beyond the imagination .
and when you get to it , you &apos;re shocked that you &apos;re actually capable of something like this . that &apos;s an epic victory .
third , escalation of expectations .
this player is right in front of an epic victory .
and this is what we have to see on millions of faces of problem solvers all over the world , when we &apos;re attacking the hurdles of the next century , the face of those who are on the edge of an epic victory .
well , unfortunately , we tend to see this face in real life when we face difficult problems .
i call it the &quot; in life i &apos;m bad &quot; face , and it &apos;s actually my face , you know ? ok ?
that &apos;s me doing the &quot; in life i &apos;m bad &quot; face .
this is a graffiti in my former home in berkeley , california , where i was studying why we &apos;re better at play in games than in real life .
this is a problem that a lot of players have .
we think we &apos;re not as good in reality as we are in games .
and i don &apos;t just mean less successfully , even though that &apos;s part of it .
we do more in game worlds . i mean , well , in the context of motivation to do something significant , inspired to collaborate with each other .
this struck me when i wanted to exchange my jeans .
when we &apos;re in a game world , i believe that many of us are transforming into our best version at any given time and instantly helpful to try to solve the problem , as long as it takes , to try it again after the failure .
and in reality , when we fail , when we hit obstacles , we often feel different .
we feel overwhelmed . we feel defeated . we feel threatened , maybe depressed , frustrated or cynical .
we never have these feelings when we play games , we just don &apos;t have them in games .
and that &apos;s what i wanted to look at as a ph.d. student .
why is it impossible in games to think you couldn &apos;t just do anything ?
how can we transmit these feelings from games to reality ?
so i looked at games like the world of warcraft that are offering the ideal environment for collaborative problem solving .
and i &apos;ve found some things that make epic victories possible in online worlds .
so , first of all , when you get in one of these online games , especially in the world of warcraft , there are a lot of different characters willing to trust you of a global mission , and it &apos;s immediately .
i &apos;m wearing jeans , almost all the time .
but not just any mission , but a mission that fits perfectly to your current level in the game , right ?
so they can do that .
they never get a task that they can &apos;t solve .
but always at the edge of their skills , so they have to be hard , but there &apos;s no unemployment in the world of warcraft .
you don &apos;t sit around and spin . there &apos;s always a very important thing to do .
and there &apos;s plenty of staff .
wherever you go , hundreds of thousands of people working with you to finish your epic mission .
we don &apos;t have that easy in real life , that feeling that there &apos;s a fingertip that &apos;s ready for staff .
and also , there &apos;s this epic story , this inspiring story of why we are there and what we have to do .
then we get this whole positive feedback .
and there was a time when there were only jeans of a kind , and they bought them , and they were badly adapted , they were incredibly uncomfortable , and if they had carried them long enough and often washed enough , they started to feel &quot; ok . &quot;
you &apos;ve probably heard of &quot; level &quot; and &quot; + 1 strength &quot; or &quot; + 1 intelligence . &quot;
this constant feedback is not in real life .
if i leave this stage , i don &apos;t have + 1 and + 1 crazy idea , + 20 crazy idea .
i don &apos;t get that feedback in real life .
so , the problem of cooperative online worlds like the world of warcraft is that it &apos;s so satisfying to stand on the edge of an epic victory that we prefer to spend all of our time in these game worlds .
they &apos;re just better than reality .
to this day , all the world of warfare players have spent 5.93 million years together solving the virtual problems of azeroth .
that &apos;s not necessarily bad .
it may sound evil .
but to see it in context , 5.93 million years ago , our first primate ancestors began to go upright .
so , to buy new jeans after many years of the old wear , and i said , &quot; i &apos;d like to have some jeans , here &apos;s my size . &quot;
so the first exciting primate .
ok , so when we talk about how much time we spend right now playing games , it just makes sense when we have time looking at the scale of human development , which is extraordinary .
but also , it turns out that by using all this time on play , we actually change what we can do as people .
we &apos;re developing into collaborative , heartfelt creatures .
that &apos;s the truth . that &apos;s what i believe .
if you look at these interesting statistics that have recently been published by a researcher at carnegie mellon university , the average young man in a country with strong play culture is spending 10,000 hours playing online to the 21st year of life .
so , 10,000 hours is a very interesting number for two reasons .
first of all , for children in the united states , 10,080 hours is the exact total amount that they spend in school , from fifth grade to high school , if you never miss .
so here we have a complete parallel path where young people learn as much as what it means to be a good player as anything else they learn in school .
and maybe some of you have read the new book by malcolm gladwell , &quot; flying . &quot;
and the salesman said , &quot; do you want snake , slightly attached or wide ?
so you know his theory of success , the theory of the success of the 10,000 hours .
it &apos;s based on the great research of cognitive science that if we spend 10,000 hours studying any subject until the 21st year , we will be mastering in it .
we get so good at doing whatever we do , like the most important people in the world .
so , what we have here is a whole generation of young people who are master-players .
so the big question is , &quot; what are the players who are masterically good ? &quot;
because if we could figure that out , we would have virtually unprecedented human potential .
so many people now have in the world that spend at least an hour a day playing online .
these are our master players . 500 million people who are extraordinarily good in &quot; something . &quot;
and in the next decade , we have another billion players who are extraordinarily good at whatever .
if you haven &apos;t heard it .
do you want to wash buttons or closed-loop ? stone or acid wash ?
the game industry is developing consoles that save energy and work on mobile phone nets , rather than the broadband internet , so that players can play games all over the world , especially in india , china , brazil online .
you expect an extra billion players in the next decade .
so we have 1.5 billion players in total .
so i started to think about what it is that these games make us master .
here are the four things i found . first of all , urgency optimism .
ok , think of how extreme self-motivation is .
urgency optimism is the desire to do something immediately , to master a barrier , along with the belief that we have a founded hope for success .
players always believe that an epic victory is possible , and it &apos;s always worth trying , and it &apos;s the same .
players don &apos;t sit around .
players are masters in the spider of social nets .
do you want jeans with holes ?
there &apos;s a lot of interesting research that shows that we people like more after we &apos;ve played with them , even when they &apos;ve defeated us .
the reason for that is that it requires a lot of trust to play with somebody .
we trust that somebody will spend time with us , that the rules are held , that we have the same goal , and we will stay with it until the end of the game .
so the interaction allows the growth of ties , trust and each other .
as a result , we build stronger social relationships .
happy productivity . fantastic !
you know , there &apos;s a reason why the average word of warcraft players play 22 hours a week , sort of as a part-time job .
the reason is that when we play , we &apos;re actually happier at working hard than when we relax or do nothing .
we know that we work optimally as human beings when we do hard , meaningful work .
and players are always willing to work hard when they get the right task .
do you want to cut a long way down , cookie , blah blah , blah ... &quot; and so on , he said .
and finally , epic meaning .
players love to be part of the awe of a planetary scale .
here &apos;s a backbone formation to bring that to the right , and you all know wikipedia , the largest wiki in the world .
the second largest wiki in the world , with almost 80,000 entries , is the world of warcraft wiki .
five million people use it every month .
they &apos;ve put more information together about the world of warcraft on the internet than about any other topic in any other wiki in the world .
they create an epic story .
they create an epic source of knowledge about the world of warcraft .
ok , so these are four superpowers that lead to a single result : players are super-powerful , hopeful individuals .
it &apos;s people who believe that they can change the world as an individual .
all of this is rooted in the mythological past , and the strange thing about these big houses , where , because of the mischefs , six or seven languages are spoken , is that you never hear anyone who learns a language .
my jaw was down , and after i recovered , i said , &quot; i &apos;d like the only species that used to be the only species . &quot;
and the only problem is that you think you can change the virtual worlds , but not the real ones .
that &apos;s the problem i &apos;m trying to solve .
edward castronova is a folk scientist .
his work is brilliant . he studies why people spend so much time , energy and money in online worlds .
and he says , &quot; we will witness not less than a mass migration in virtual worlds and online game environments . &quot;
and it &apos;s an economist . so it &apos;s logical .
and he says ...
not like me , i develop games , i &apos;m a little bit obsolete .
so he says that actually makes sense , because players can achieve more in online worlds than in real life .
they can form stronger social ties in games than in real life . they get more feedback and rewards in games than in real life .
he had no idea what that was , so i spent an hour trying to do all these damn jeans , and i forgot the business -- and i say the truth -- with the best fit jeans i &apos;ve ever had .
so , he says it &apos;s totally logical right now that players spend more time in the virtual world than in the real world .
i &apos;ll just agree , that &apos;s logical .
but it &apos;s definitely not an optimal situation .
we need to start to turn the real world into a game .
my inspiration comes from an event that &apos;s 2,500 years back .
there are these ancient cubes made of sheep skulls . you know ?
before these fantastic game controllers , there was sheep &apos;s need .
and these were sort of the first people to develop toys .
and if you &apos;re familiar with the work of the ancient greek historian herodotus , you may know this story . the story about how and why games were invented .
and according to herodotus , games were invented , specifically , in the kingdom of lydics during a famine .
i had better . all this choice enabled me to have better .
there was such a big famine that the king of lydics decided to be a crazy idea .
people suffered . people fought .
it was an extreme situation . you needed an extreme solution .
so they invented , according to herodotus , the cube game , and they agreed a national strategy , and one day you would eat . the next day you would play .
and they would be so deeply immersed in the cube , because games are so fascinating and surrounded us with satisfying , happy productivity that they would forget that there was nothing to eat .
and then the next day you would play , and the next day you would eat .
and according to herodotus , they survived this famine for 18 years by eating and playing the next day .
likewise , i think , we &apos;re putting games in today .
we use games to escape the suffering of the real world .
we put in games to get rid of everything that doesn &apos;t work in the real world , everything that &apos;s not satisfying in real life , and we get what we need out of the games .
but i felt worse .
but that doesn &apos;t have to be the end .
that &apos;s the exciting thing .
and according to herodotus , after 18 years , the famine didn &apos;t get better , so the king decided to do a final cube game .
they divided the kingdom into two halves .
they played a cube game , and the winners were allowed to break down to an epic adventure .
they were leaving lydics and they were looking for a new home , and they were leaving as many people as there was for food to survive and looking for the rest of an area where they could thrive .
that sounds crazy , right ?
but the latest dna evidence shows that the etruskers who later formed the roman empire have the same dna as the old lydians .
so scientists recently came to the idea that herodotus &apos; crazy story is actually true .
and geologists found evidence of a global cooling that took almost 20 years to explain the famine .
why ? i wrote a whole book to try and explain it to myself .
so this crazy story could be true .
maybe they actually rescued their people through play by flipping into games for 18 years and then learning so much about playing with each other that they saved the whole civilization .
so that &apos;s what we can do .
we &apos;ve been playing warcraft since 1994 .
this was the first strategy game in real time in the world of warcraft series . this was 16 years ago .
they played cube games for 18 years , we &apos;ve been playing warcraft for 16 years .
i &apos;m saying we &apos;re ready for our own epic game .
so , they sent half of their civilization to look for a new world , so i &apos;m going to take my 21 billion hours a week .
we should be overincome that half of us spend an hour a day playing games until we &apos;ve solved the real world &apos;s problems .
i know you &apos;re going to ask , &quot; how do we solve the real world &apos;s problems ? &quot; and that &apos;s the very question i &apos;ve dedicated my work to the institute in the last few years .
the reason i felt worse was because of all these available possibilities , my expectations of what makes up a good couple of jeans , went up .
we have this banner in our office in palo alto , and it expresses how we should understand the future .
we don &apos;t want to try to tell the future before .
what we want is to create the future .
we want to think of the best possible outcome , and then empower people to put this idea into reality .
we think of epic victories , and we give people the opportunity to achieve them .
i &apos;m going to show you three games that i designed to try to get people to epic victories in their own future .
this is &quot; world without oil . &quot;
the game is 2007 .
it &apos;s an online game where you have to overcome an oil scarcity .
i had very low expectations . i had no concrete expectations when there was only one kind of thing .
we &apos;ve tested this game with 1,700 players in 2007 , and we &apos;ve been accompaniing them since the last three years .
and i can tell you , it was a transformative experience .
nobody wants to change their lives because it &apos;s good for the environment , or because we should .
but if you &apos;re in an epic adventure and you &apos;re told , &quot; we &apos;re going to run out of oil . &quot;
this is a fascinating adventure that you go to .
find out how they would survive . most of our players have maintained the habits in the game .
so for the next world-changing game , we set a bigger , higher goal than just oil scarcity .
we &apos;ve developed the game superstruct at the institute for the future .
the starting point is the computation of a supercomputer that people have only 23 years left on the planet .
this supercomputer is called the global extinction system of sensitivity , of course .
when they came to 100 species , damn , one of them should have been perfect .
the call to players to sign up , we &apos;ve created almost like a jerry bruckheimer movie .
you know jerry bruckheimer movies , where there &apos;s the dream-team . they have the astronauts , the scientist , the ex-strings , and only together they can save the world .
but in our game , instead of just five people , we say everybody is in the dream-team , and it &apos;s our job to create the future for energy , food , health , security and the future of social justice .
8,000 players played the game for eight weeks .
they found 500 incredibly creative solutions that you can read when you google &quot; superstruct . &quot;
and the last game we bring out on march 3 , and it &apos;s a game in collaboration with the world bank .
when you close the game , you get the award from the world bank , the award of social transformation , graduation in 2010 .
we work with universities across sub-saharan africa and invite them to learn social redesign .
we have a comic book on it . we have &quot; level &quot; for regional understanding , knowledge , sustainability , vision and ingenuity .
i want to invite you all to share this game with young people all over the world , especially in developing areas that benefit from imagining their own social enterprises to save the world .
and what i got was good , but it wasn &apos;t perfect .
i &apos;m going to end now .
i want to ask you something .
what do you think is going to happen next ?
we have all these fantastic players , we have games that show us what we can do , but we haven &apos;t saved the real world yet .
well , i hope you &apos;ll agree that players are human resources that we can use to work in real life , and that games have a huge meaning for change .
we have all these superpowers , happy productivity , the ability to make tight social nets , urgency optimism and the desire for epic meaning .
i really hope that we &apos;re playing significant games together to survive another century on this planet .
and i hope you &apos;ll design and play with me like this .
when i look forward to the next decade , i &apos;m sure two things : that we can create any imaginable future , and that we can play all kinds of games .
so i say , let &apos;s start the world-changing games !
and so i compared what i had gotten to what i expected , and what i had was disappointing compared to what i expected .
thank you .
i &apos;d like to tell you something that came to mind a few months ago when i was writing an article for italian wired .
i &apos;ve always been doing my synonymous dictionary , but i &apos;ve been working on the text , and i &apos;ve noticed that i &apos;ve never been looking for anything in my life , which means &quot; disabled . &quot;
i &apos;m going to read you the post .
&quot; disabled , &quot; adjectively : &quot; crippled , helpless , useless , destroyed , dead , mutilated , wounded , dedicated , laid , separated , served , weakened , impotent , castried , paralyzed , handicapped , handicap , age-weak , pulled out of traffic , refined , done , broken injured , counted , injured , useless and weak .
antonym : healthy , strong , powerful . &quot;
i read this list to a friend loud , and i had to laugh at first , and it was so ridiculous , but i only came to &quot; dedicated , &quot; and i couldn &apos;t talk about it , and i had to stop reading , and i had to collect the first time after this falling word tide and the interconnected emotional shock .
of course , this was a maximum old synonymous dictionary , and i just thought that the copy must be quite old .
but in fact , it was a copy of the early &apos; 80s when i was just starting elementary school and starting to build and shape my sense of self outside my family environment in terms of other children and the rest of the world around me .
and thank god i didn &apos;t use a synonymous dictionary at the time .
they just listen , and then they start talking .
adding opportunities to people &apos;s lives is inevitably increasing the expectations that people have about how well these possibilities are going to be .
if i took this post seriously , i would be born into a world that someone like me would perceive as a person whose life can &apos;t be positive in any way , but today i will be celebrated for the odds and adventures that i &apos;ve experienced .
so i immediately called myself the online copy of 2009 and expected me to find a more appealing contribution here .
here &apos;s the updated version of this entry .
unfortunately , it &apos;s not much better .
in particular , the last two words under near antonyms are shaking me &quot; all &quot; and &quot; healthy . &quot;
but it &apos;s not just about the words .
it &apos;s about what we think about the people we describe with these words .
it &apos;s about the values that are in these words , and how we construct these values .
our language affects our thinking and how we see the world and the people around us .
many ancient societies , including the greeks and the roman , have really believed that the language of a flight has a huge force , because what you say you can also manifest .
and this leads to less satisfaction with the results , even though the results are good .
so , what do we really want to manifest -- a disabled person or a powerful person ?
even to call a man mindlessly as a child , could be enough to restrict them and to overcome ideas .
wouldn &apos;t it be more beautiful to open doors to you ?
a human being who opened doors for me was my pediatrician at a.i. dupont institute in wilmington in delaware .
it &apos;s called dr. pizzutillo . it &apos;s a italo american whose name , as you can imagine , most americans couldn &apos;t say correctly , so he was always called dr. p.
and dr. p. always wore very colorful flies and was just created for working with kids .
i found the time i spent in this hospital , just great -- except for my physiotherapy .
i had to do individual exercises that seem to be infinitely repeated with these thick , elastic edges -- in different colors -- you know , to build my leg muscles . and i &apos;ve hated these bands more than anything else . i &apos;ve hated them . i &apos;ve cursed them . i &apos;ve hated them .
and imagine i even negotiated with dr. p. as a five-year-old child , and so i tried to stop these exercises , naturally without success .
and one day , he saw me in one of my exercises -- these exercises were just tiring and scarless -- and he said to me , &quot; wow , aimee , you &apos;re such a strong , powerful and young girl , you &apos;re going to tear one day one of these benches .
no one in the world of marketing knows this , because if you did , you all wouldn &apos;t know what this is about .
and if you do it , i &apos;ll give you a hundred dollars . &quot;
that was , of course , just a simple trick from dr. p. to make the exercises that i didn &apos;t want to do , with the prospect that there were five year-old girls in the hospital in the second floor , but he actually got me to see my daily practice horror with new eyes , so it became a new and promising experience .
and i &apos;m asking myself today how much his vision of me as a strong and powerful young girl has shaped my self-image , and i &apos;ve been able to imagine myself as one of nature of strong , powerful and atlethic people .
this is just one example of how adults in power positions can attract the imagination of a child .
but as the examples that have already quoted from synonymous dictionaries , our language doesn &apos;t allow us to imagine anything that we would all wish : to allow anyone to see themselves as powerful people .
our language adds the social changes that have been triggered in many cases by a technological change .
and of course , from the medical standpoint , you can say that my legs , the laser surgery for visually impaired , knee joints from titan and artificial hip joints for aging bodies that allow people to really use all of their possibilities and to develop beyond the limits that their natural destiny , not to speak of social networking platforms , people enable themselves to define themselves in their own way , and to orient themselves to groups around the world that they choose themselves .
so maybe this technological change is more clear than ever that there has been a different truth , which is that every human being in society can give something special and very powerful , and that the human ability to adapt is our biggest plus .
the human ability to adapt -- this is an interesting story , because people are always asking me to tell the story of how i deal with adversity , and i &apos;m going to tell you something : this sentence has never adapted for me , and i &apos;ve always felt very uncomfortable with answering the questions of people , and i think , gradually , i understand why .
this is a phrase of otherness that lives on the idea that success or happiness depends on mastering a challenge without being coined by the experience that i had , as if my life had been so successful , because i could escape the possible falls of a life with a prosthetic , or whatever people have perceived me with my disability .
the truth is more like this .
but the truth is that we &apos;re changing . of course , we &apos;re shaped by the challenge , whether it &apos;s physical , emotional or even both .
and i &apos;m saying that &apos;s good .
widerness is not an obstacle that we need to curve to make better sense of our lives .
widrities just belong to our lives .
and i tend to see widerness as my shadow .
sometimes i realize that it &apos;s very present , sometimes it &apos;s very little to see , but it &apos;s constantly with me .
and i don &apos;t want to have the impact , or the severe , of the fight of a human being .
there are adversaries and challenges in life , and they &apos;re just too real , and each person is dealing with it differently , but the question is not whether we can deal with widerness or not , but how we deal with it .
so we &apos;re not just responsible for preserving the people we love from fatalities , but also prepare them to get good at it .
and we don &apos;t like our kids if we give them the feeling that they can &apos;t adapt .
the reason is because it used to be better than anything worse than anything that was worse , it was possible for people to experience what was a pleasant surprise .
you have to separate two things : one is the medical fact of being amputated and the other is the social opinion of whether i &apos;m disabled or not .
and to be honest , the only real and persistent disability that i had to deal with is that the world constantly thinks it can describe me with these definitions .
in our desire to protect the people who care about us and to share with you the cold , hard truth about their medical forecasts , or even a forecast about quality of life that they expect , we have to pay attention to the fact that we don &apos;t have to make sure that somebody is actually disabled .
maybe the current concept , which is just looking at what &apos;s broken , and how we fix it , for each individual , is a greater disability than pathology itself .
if we don &apos;t treat a human being , and we don &apos;t perceive and recognize all of the forces and possibilities , in addition to the natural struggle that you might have to lead , another disease .
we degrade a human being who has value for our society .
so we have to look beyond the patology and focus on all of the human possibilities .
but most importantly , there is a connection between the perception of our inadequacy and our great inventory spirit .
we should not deny or deny these challenging times , we should not try to avoid them , nor should we go to the carpet , but it &apos;s about recognizing the opportunities in the vienna .
maybe i &apos;m more likely to be clear that we don &apos;t necessarily have to overcome widrities , but that we &apos;re open to hug them , to put them on the shelf , to use a fight and maybe even dance with it .
today , in the world we live in -- we are wealthy , industrialized citizens , with perfection as an expectation -- the best thing you can ever hope for is things as good as you expect them to .
and maybe we can see widerness as something natural , coherent and useful , and feel so troubled by their presence .
this year , we celebrate the 200th birthday of charles darwin , and when he wrote about evolution 150 years ago , darwin , in my view , pointed out to something very true about human character .
i would rewrite it this way : not the strongest of its kind , and not the most intelligent of its kind , but the one that can adapt to change the best .
conflict comes from creativity .
not only do we know from darwin &apos;s work that the human ability to survive and flourish is determined by the struggle of the human mind to transform through conflict .
so , again , change and adaptation are the greatest skills of human beings .
and maybe we just know what wood we &apos;re made of when we &apos;re really tested .
maybe that &apos;s exactly what the sense of adversity , a sense of the ick , is a sense of our own power .
we can give ourselves something like this .
we can give vitality a new meaning that goes beyond severe times .
they &apos;re never going to be surprised because their expectations , my expectations , are homework .
maybe we can see widerness as a change .
widerness is a change that we haven &apos;t adapted to yet .
i think the biggest damage we &apos;ve added ourselves is to believe that we should be normal .
let &apos;s face it -- who &apos;s normal ?
there &apos;s no normal .
there &apos;s the usual one . the typical one , but not the normal one , and would you really want to know that poor person , gray person , if they really existed ?
i think , rather than .
it would be great if we could exchange this paradigm of normality against a different set of possibilities , or the strength , to actually formulate it a little bit more dangerous , so we can release the forces of very many children , and invite them to bring their special and valuable skills into society .
anthropollinators have found that we have always asked people from the members of our society to be useful and to contribute .
there &apos;s evidence that the neanderthals were already 60,000 years ago , older people and people with severe physical injuries , and that might have happened because the life experience was worthy of these people &apos;s survival .
the secret to happiness -- that &apos;s what they all came for -- the secret to happiness is low expectations .
they didn &apos;t think of these people as broken and useless ; they were treated as something special and valuable .
a few years ago , i went to the city that i grew up in a food market in this red zone in the northeast of pennsylvania , and i was standing there in front of a shell tomato .
it was summer , and i had shorts .
and i hear a guy behind me say , &quot; well , if that &apos;s not aimee mullins . &quot;
and i turn around and i see this older man . i had no idea who he is .
and i said , &quot; excuse me , sir , we know ourselves ? i can &apos;t remember them . &quot;
and he said , &quot; well , you can &apos;t remember me .
when i first saw her , i pulled her out of her mother &apos;s belly . &quot;
oh , so that one .
and then , of course , it did click .
i want to say -- a short autobiographical moment -- that i &apos;m married to a woman , and she &apos;s really wonderful .
this was dr. kean , a man i only knew from narratives of my mother about this day , because , of course , i was very typical of my birthday for two weeks .
my mother &apos;s doctor for pranatal diagnosis was on vacation , and so my parents didn &apos;t know the man who brought me to the world at all .
and because i was born without legs , and my feet had been focused on them , and i had just a few toes on this and a few toes on the other foot , he was the bridge , this stranger had to get the bad news .
he said to me , &quot; i had to tell your parents that you would never walk , and never be as moving as other kids , or that you could never live an independent life , and since then they just punished me . &quot;
what was really extraordinary to me was that he had collected newspaper clips of my entire childhood , whether i &apos;d won a spelling competition in the second grade , whether i was with the finders in the parade to hallona , whether i had my scholarship or one of my sports victories , and he used these clips to teach his students , medical students from the hahnemann medical school and the hershey medical school .
and he called this part of his course the x factor , the potential of human will .
you can &apos;t just emphasize enough how critical that factor can be to the quality of a human being &apos;s life .
and dr. kean went on to say , &quot; i &apos;ve learned that kids , if they don &apos;t get something else all the time , and even if they get a little bit of support , if you leave kids alone , then children can do a lot . &quot;
you see , dr. kean has changed his thinking .
he had understood that the medical diagnosis , and how someone deals with it , is two different things .
i couldn &apos;t have done it better . i didn &apos;t let myself down .
and i also changed my thinking over time , if you had asked me at the age of 15 , if i had swapped my prosthetic legs into meat and bones , i would have not hesitated a second .
i really wanted to be normal at the time .
if you ask me that today , i &apos;m not so sure .
and that &apos;s because i &apos;ve experienced something with my legs and not in spite of these experiences .
and maybe this change could happen because i &apos;ve encountered so many people who have opened doors to me , instead of encountering people who wanted to restrict me or overstack me .
you see , it really only takes one person to demonstrate to you how they can manifest their forces , and they &apos;re through .
if you allow someone to activate their own inner forces -- the human mind is so recommended -- if they can do that and open a door for somebody in a critical moment , they &apos;re a very good teacher for these people .
they teach them to open themselves doors .
the actual meaning of the word educate is rooted in the word &quot; educe . &quot;
it means empowering something that is in one thing to tickle out the potential .
or , one of the most intriguing tribes i &apos;ve ever lived with , the waorani in the northeast of ecuador , an amazing people who have been contacted for the first time in 1958 .
but declining is not always such a bad thing .
again , what is the potential we want to call out ?
in the &apos; 60s , a case study was done in the u.k. , and then gymnasians were transformed into overall schools .
they call this streaming trials in the united states , we call it &quot; tracking . &quot;
students are divided by grades .
and the a students are checked harder , get better teachers and so on .
they then , over a three-month period of time , gave students a &quot; sufficiently &quot; grade &quot; very well , and they were told they were street , they were very smart , and after those three months , they really wrote one .
and of course , it breaks your heart to hear that in reverse , the one-year-olds were told they were just sufficient .
and it was the same after the three months .
but only those who were still in school -- apart from the students who had thrown the school .
and the key thing about this study was that the teachers were not denied .
finally , a consequence of buying a bad sitting jeans , if there &apos;s only one way to buy , is that if you &apos;re unhappy , and you wonder why , who &apos;s responsible , the answer is clear . the world is responsible . what could you have done ?
the teachers didn &apos;t know that something was changed .
they were just told that they were the one-year-olds , and these are the students with the grade enough , and they taught them something , and they treated them .
the only real disability is a broken mind that has been broken , has no hope . it can &apos;t find anything beautiful . it lacks our natural , childhood curiosity , and our innate ability of imagination .
but if we can continue to support the human spirit , to continue to hope , to find yourself and other people around you , to be curious , to be imaginative , then we &apos;re really empowered by our forces .
if a mind has these qualities , we can create a new reality and new forms of being .
i want to end with a poem written by a persian poet called hafiz in the 14th century , and that my friend jacques dembois told me about . and the poem is called , &quot; the god who only knows four words . &quot; every child knows god , not the god of the name , not the god of the commandment , but the god who only knows four words and repeats them all the time , he just says , &quot; come , dance with me . &quot;
come on , dance with me . thank you .
how would you want to be better than you are right now ?
suppose that , through a few changes in your genes , you could have a better memory -- more precise , more accurate and faster .
or want to be fitter , stronger , more powerful .
when hundreds of different kinds of jeans are available , and they buy one that &apos;s disappointing , and they ask why , who &apos;s responsible ?
do you want to be more attractive and confident ?
what would it be like to live longer in good health ?
or maybe you &apos;re one of those who &apos;s always been longing for more creativity .
which one would you like the most ?
which one would you like to have if you could only have one ?
creativity .
how many people would choose creativity ?
raise your hands . let me see .
a few . probably about as many as there are creative people here .
that &apos;s very good .
it &apos;s also clear that the answer to the question is : you .
how many would choose to have a good memory ?
a few more .
what about fitness ?
a few less .
what about longevity ?
ah , the majority . i like to see that as a doctor .
if you could only have one of them , it would be a very different world .
is that all education ?
or is it possible ?
evolution has been a continuous topic here at the ted conference , but today i want to give you a doctor &apos;s view of the subject .
they could have done better .
the great geneticist in the 20th century , t.g. dobzhansky , who was also a communicator in the russian orthodox church , once wrote a paper called &quot; nothing in biology doesn &apos;t make sense but in the light of evolution . &quot;
now , if you &apos;re one of those who doesn &apos;t accept the evidence of biological evolution , this would be a very good time to turn out your listening device , take your personal communication device -- i &apos;ll give you permission -- and maybe you can take a look at kathryn schultz &apos;s book , which is to be wrong , because nothing else in the course of this talk will make any sense for you .
but if you accept biological evolution , do you consider this : is it just about the past , or is it about the future ?
is it true for others , or is it true for us ?
this is another look at the tree of life .
in this image , i put a bush as a center of despair in all directions , because if you look at the edges of the tree of life , all the existing specifications at the top of these branches have been in evolutionary terms : they have survived ; it has demonstrated its environment of fitness and strength .
the human part of this book , far at the end , is , of course , what we &apos;re most interested in .
we branch from a common ancestor to modern chimpanzees about six or eight million years ago .
in this period of time , maybe there were 20 or 25 different species of hominids .
some of them have come and gone .
with 100 different kinds of jeans in the window , there &apos;s no excuse for mistakes .
we &apos;ve been here for about 130,000 years .
it seems that we are quite remote from the other parts of the tree of life , but actually most of the time , the basic mechanisms of our cells are pretty much the same .
do you realize that we can take advantage of it and implement the mechanisms of a common bacterium to produce the protein of the human insulin , which is used to treat diabetics ?
this is not like humaninsulin ; this is the same protein that &apos;s chemically undifferent from what comes out of the pancreas .
and while we &apos;re talking about bacteria , do you realize that each of us in our gut is doing more bacteria than it &apos;s doing cells in the rest of our bodies ?
maybe 10 times as many .
i mean , if antonio damasio asks for her self-image , do you think about the bacteria ?
our gut is a wonderfully hospitable environment for these bacteria .
it &apos;s warm , it &apos;s dark , it &apos;s wet , it &apos;s very comfortable .
and you &apos;re going to offer them all the nutrients that they might want without effort on their own .
and so , when people make decisions , and even though the results of the decisions are good , they feel disappointed about it , they accuse themselves .
it &apos;s a really easy way for bacteria , with occasional interruptions of unintended , jeodch forced to go out .
but otherwise , they &apos;re a wonderful environment for these bacteria , just like they &apos;re important for their lives .
they help digestive nutrients , and they protect them against certain diseases .
but what &apos;s going to come in the future ?
are we in some kind of evolutionary balance in the form of a species ?
or are we going to be something else -- something that might even be better adapted to the environment ?
now let &apos;s take a step back to the time of the big bang 14 billion years ago -- the earth , the solar system , about four and a half billion years ago -- the first signs of creatures , maybe three to four billion years ago on earth -- the first multi-celled organisms , maybe so much as 800 or a billion years ago -- and then the human species , which forms in the last 130,000 years .
in this huge unfinished symphony of the universe , life on earth is just briefly measured ; the animal kingdom , like a single stroke ; and human life , a small notation .
that &apos;s us .
this is also the entertainment value of this talk , which is why i hope you &apos;ve enjoyed it .
clinical depression exploded in the industrial world in the last generation .
now , when i was a neuling in college , i had my first biology classes .
i was fascinated by the elegance and beauty of biology .
i fell in love with the power of evolution , and i found something very fundamental : in most of the existence of life , in single organisms , each cell divides , and all the genetic information of the cell is carried on into both daughter cells .
but at the time , when multicellular organisms arose , things started to change .
sexual reproduction comes into the picture .
and most importantly , with the introduction of sexual reproduction that the genome passes on , the rest of the body becomes deprived .
in fact , you might say that the inevitability of the death of our body is in evolution at the same moment as sexual reproduction .
now i have to say , when i was a college student , i thought , okay , sex / death , sex / death , death for sex -- it seemed pretty reasonable at the time , but with every year , it &apos;s come to my growing doubt .
i &apos;ve come to understand the feelings of george burns , who performed his show in las vegas in the &apos; 90s .
and one night , there &apos;s a pat on his hotel door .
i believe a significant -- not the only one , but a significant contributor to this explosion of depression , and also suicide , is that people have experienced disappointing because their standards are so high , and then , if they have to explain these experiences themselves , they think it would be their fault .
he opens the door .
in front of him is a beautifully dressed showgirl .
she looks at him and says , &quot; i &apos;m here for super-sex . &quot;
&quot; that &apos;s wonderful , &quot; says george , &quot; i &apos;m going to take the soup . &quot;
i came to the realization that i was working on a goal that was different from the goal of evolution -- not necessarily contradictory , just different .
i tried to preserve the body .
i wanted to keep us healthy .
i wanted to restore health after a disease .
i wanted us to live a long and healthy life .
evolution is all about the passing of the genome to the next generation , adaptation and survival by generation .
and so the visual result is that we &apos;re generally better , objective , and we feel worse .
from an evolutionary standpoint , they and i are developing boster rockets to send the genetic question to the next level of orbit , and then drop into the sea .
i think we would all understand the mood that woody was expressing when he said , &quot; i don &apos;t want to get immortality through my work .
i want to do it by not dying . &quot;
evolution doesn &apos;t necessarily mean preferring the longest life .
it doesn &apos;t necessarily prioritize the biggest , the strongest , or the fastest , and not even the smartest .
evolution prioritizes the creatures that are best adapted to their environment .
it &apos;s just the test of survival and success .
at the bottom of the ocean , bacteria are there , which are thermophil , and by doing so , the hot steam survives otherwise , if fish were there , it would have been vacuum boiled fish , but they have managed to make a habitable environment for themselves .
so , what does that mean when we look back at what happens in evolution , and how we think about the place of people in evolution , and particularly how we look forward to the next stage , i would say that there are a number of possibilities .
the first is that we &apos;re not going to move forward .
in 1957 , five missionary contact tried and made a severe mistake .
so let me remind you .
we &apos;ve reached a kind of balance .
and the reason for that is that we were first able to get a bunch of genes that would have otherwise been selected and taken out of the population .
and second , we , as a species , have configurated our environment so that we &apos;ve managed to adapt to us , and we adapt to them .
and by the way , we hike and circle and mix so much that they can &apos;t say that isolation is necessary for evolution to find statement .
a second possibility is that it &apos;s going to be an evolution of the traditional kind , of course , imposed on the forces of nature .
and the argument , here , is that the wheels of evolution are slowly grinding , but they &apos;re uncanny .
and as far as isolation goes , if we colonize distant planets as a species , there will be isolation and the changes in the environment that could produce evolution in a natural way .
but there &apos;s a third possibility , a seductive , fascinating and terrifying possibility .
i call it neo-evolution -- the new development that &apos;s not just natural , but led and determined by us as individuals in the decisions that we make .
now , how could this happen ?
this is the official dogma that we all think is right is completely wrong . it &apos;s not true .
how could it be that we do this ?
let &apos;s start by looking at the reality that people today , in some cultures , make decisions about their offspring .
they are , in some cultures , the choice to have more men than women .
it &apos;s not necessarily good for society , but it &apos;s what the individual and the family decide .
so think , if it wasn &apos;t just possible to choose the gender of your child , but also to choose the genetic adaptations that would cure and prevent the disease .
what if you could make the genetic changes to eliminate diabetes or alzheimer &apos;s disease or eliminate the reduction of cancer risk or stroke ?
would you not want to make these changes in your genes ?
if we look ahead , these kinds of changes will be increasingly possible .
the human genome project started in 1990 , and it took 13 years .
it cost 2.7 billion dollars .
there &apos;s no question that &apos;s better than none , but it doesn &apos;t follow that more choice is better than some choice .
the following year , when it was done in 2004 , they could do the same thing for 20 million dollars in penetration to four months .
today , you can complete a sequence of the three billion base pairs of the human genome at a price of about 20,000 dollars and in the space of about a week .
it &apos;s not going to take long before the reality will be that there will be the 1,000 dollars of human genomes , and it &apos;s going to be increasingly available to everybody .
a week ago , the national academy of engineering gave birth to the draper prize for francis arnold and wild stemmer , two scientists who independently developed techniques that encourage the natural process of evolution to work faster and lead to desirable proteins in an efficient way -- called frances arnold &quot; direct evolution . &quot;
a few years ago , scientist shinya yamanaka was awarded the laser prize for his research where he took a adult skin cell , a fibroblast , and by manipulation of just four genes , the cell induced to take it back to a pluripotent stem cell -- a cell , potentially , is able to become any cell in your body .
these changes are coming .
the same technology that human insulin can make in bacteria can make viruses that can not only protect itself , but can also serve the immunity against other viruses .
whether you believe it or not , it &apos;s an experimental study in the gang with vaccine against influenza that &apos;s been built into the cells of a tobacco plant .
can you imagine something good that comes out of tobacco ?
this is all reality today , and in the future , it &apos;s going to be much more possible .
there &apos;s a magical amount . i don &apos;t know what it is .
imagine two other small changes .
you can change the cells in your body , but what if you could change the cells of your descendants ?
what if you could change the sperm and the eggs or the newly fertilized egg to give your children a better chance of a healthier life -- eliminating diabetes , eliminating the hemophility , reducing the risk of cancer ?
who doesn &apos;t want healthier children ?
and then the analytical technology , the same engine of science that can enable the change to prevent disease , could also allow us to adopt super-attribute , hyper-capacity -- the better memory .
why don &apos;t the skill of a ken jennings , especially if you can expand it with the next generation of the watson machine ?
why not have the fast muscle fibers that will allow you to run faster and longer ?
why no longer live ?
these will be irresistible .
and if we &apos;re in a place where we can pass it on to the next generation , and we can adopt the attribute that we want , we will be transformed from old style evolution to neo-evolution .
i &apos;m pretty sure that we &apos;ve missed this point in the election of our public good .
we &apos;re going to have a process that usually takes 100,000 years , and we can compress it to a thousand years -- and maybe even the next 100 years .
these are decisions that your grandchildren have to deal with , or your grandchildren .
are we using these decisions to form a society that &apos;s better , that &apos;s more successful , that &apos;s more friendly ?
or are we going to selectively choose different attributes that we want to have for some of us and not for others of us ?
are we going to form a society of dirt and uniform , or more robust and multiverse ?
these are the kinds of questions that we need to face .
and the deepest of all , will we ever be able to develop the wisdom and master the wisdom that we will need to make these decisions wise ?
in the good or in the evil , and before you might think , these decisions will be on us .
thank you .
i want you to imagine something now , a portable robot that gives you superhuman skills , or another that helps wheelchair drivers get up and go .
now , as a set of questions -- i &apos;m almost done -- as a set of questions , the thing about thinking about this is , what makes all of these choices possible in the industrialized societies is wealth .
we at berkeley bionics call these robots exoskeletons .
they &apos;re nothing but something that they put on in the morning and that will give them extra strength and that will increase their speed and that will help them keep their balance , for example .
that &apos;s actually the real melting of human and machine .
but not only that -- merging and connecting with the universe and other devices out there .
it &apos;s not just a crazy idea .
now to show you what we &apos;re working on , we &apos;re starting to talk about the american soldier on average , which is about 100 pounds on his back , and it &apos;s the question that they should be wearing more equipment .
of course , this leads to some major complications -- spinal injuries , 30 percent of them -- chronic spinal injuries .
so we thought that we would take this challenge and create an exoskeleton that would help deal with this problem .
so let me introduce you to hulc -- or the human universal load carrier .
soldat : with the hulc exoskeleton , i can carry 200 pounds across different terrain for many hours .
there are many places in the world , and we &apos;ve heard about many of them whose problem is not too big a choice .
his flexible design enables you to stand deep , crawl and execute highly agile movements .
it feels what i want to do , where i want to go and then increase my strength and persistence .
we &apos;re so far , with our industrial partner , to introduce this device , this new exoskeleton this year .
so it &apos;s true .
now let &apos;s take a look at the wheelchair drivers , something that i &apos;m particularly passionate about .
there are 68 million people who are sitting in the wheelchair in the world .
that &apos;s about one percent of the population .
and that &apos;s actually a conservative estimate .
we &apos;re often talking about very young people with spinal cord injury , which in the flower time of their life -- 20s , 30s , 40s -- were hit by the destiny , and the wheelchair is the only option .
but it &apos;s also about the aging population , whose number is multiplied .
their problem is that they have too little .
and pretty much the only option -- when it comes to a stroke , or other complications -- is the wheelchair .
and so , by the way , it &apos;s been 500 years since he , i have to say , very successful introduction .
so we thought we could start writing a whole new chapter in mobility .
now , let me introduce you to elegs , which is carried by amanda boxtel , who suffered a spinal cord injury 19 years ago , who came to the conclusion that she couldn &apos;t walk for 19 years and so far .
thank you .
as i said , amanda carries our elephant .
it has sensors .
his completely non-invasive sensors in the crutches that send signals back to our onboard computer , which is attached here on their back .
here are batteries , the engine is on their hips , as well as their knee joints that move forward in this pretty smooth and very natural gangart .
i was 24 years old , and in the best form , when a monstrous purse tree was paralyzing me while i was skiing .
so the things i &apos;m talking about are a strange problem of modern , rich , western societies .
in a fraction of a second , i lost every feeling and every movement underneath my basin .
not long after that , a doctor went to my hospital room and he said , &quot; amanda , you &apos;ll never go back . &quot;
and that was 19 years ago .
he steel every five hopes from my consciousness .
adaptive technologies have made it possible for me to learn to ski , to ski , to climb and even ride with my hands .
but nothing was invented that would let me go , until now .
thank you .
as you can see , we have the technology , we have the platforms to meet and discuss with them .
it &apos;s in our hands , and we have all the potential here to change the lives of future generations -- not just for the soldiers , or for amanda here and all the wheelchair drivers , but for everyone .
thank you .
and what &apos;s so frustrating and angry is , steve levitt told you yesterday about how this expensive and hard to install car seats . it &apos;s a waste of money .
at home in new york , i &apos;m the head of the development department of a nonprofit organization called robin hood .
if i don &apos;t fight poverty , i will fight as a fireman in a volunteer trigger , the fire .
now , in our city , in which volunteers were supporting a high-quality professional fire department , you have to be at the fire station pretty early to be able to mix with .
i remember my first fire .
i was the second volunteer at the fire station , so i had a pretty good chance to be able to go in .
but it was still a race against the other volunteers to get to the chief man and figure out what our tasks would be .
when i found the main man , he had a very serious conversation with the homeowner who certainly had one of the worst days in her life .
it was in the middle of the night , and she was standing in the pajamas and barefoot under a screen out in the streaming rain while her house was in flames .
the other volunteer who had arrived just before me -- let &apos;s call him lex luther -- reached the main man first , and was asked to go into the house and save the dog of the homeowner .
the dog ! i was linguistic .
they threw shiny photos out of the air , which we would consider to be a friendly gesture , and in the process , they forgot that these people from the rainforest in their life had never seen anything two-dimensional .
what i &apos;m telling you is that these expensive , complicated decisions -- it &apos;s not easy that they don &apos;t help .
there was some lawyer or contractor , who could now tell people for the rest of his life , that he went to a burning house to save a living creature , just because he was five seconds faster than me .
well , i was next .
the main man blew me up .
he said , &quot; bezos , you have to go to the house .
you have to go up , past the fire , and this woman has to get a pair of shoes . &quot;
i swear .
now , not exactly what i had hoped to do , but i went up -- the stairs up , down the hallway , past the real firemen , who were pretty much finished with the extinguishable , in the bedroom to get a pair of shoes .
i know what you &apos;re thinking now , but i &apos;m not a hero .
i carried my prey down , where i met my enemy at the front door and the beloved dog .
we wore our estimates out to the owner of the house , where , not surprisingly , he got much more attention than mine .
they &apos;re actually hurting .
a few weeks later , the fireguards got a letter from the homeowner , where they were thanking for the brave use of saving their house .
one of the most valued friendliness : somebody had actually brought her a pair of shoes .
both in my profession at robin hood and in my side profession as a volunteer fireman , i &apos;m witnessing generosity and kindness at large scale , but i also see doing the philanthropy and the mutation of individuals .
and you know what i learned ?
they &apos;re all important .
so when i look around this room and i see people who have either achieved a remarkable success or are on their way there , i want to offer the following memory : don &apos;t wait .
don &apos;t wait to make a difference in another &apos;s life , until you &apos;ve reached your first million .
if you have something to give , now you give it .
use it in a soup kitchen , clean up a park in the neighborhood .
be a mentor .
they make it worse for us to stand there .
not every day will give us a chance to save a person &apos;s life , but every day it offers us the opportunity to change one .
so go ahead and save the shoes .
thank you .
bruno guissani : mark , mark , come back .
thank you .
i &apos;m just coming back from a community that knows the secret of humanity &apos;s progression .
it &apos;s a place where the women are leading the recipe , saying sex , and the game is determining the day -- where fun is a serious issue .
and no , it &apos;s not burning man or san francisco .
ladies and gentlemen , their relationships .
this is the wild bonobos world in the forests of congo .
if something of what enables people of our society to make decisions like this to the societies in which people have shifted too little choice , it would not only improve people &apos;s lives , but also improve our dignity .
bonobos are our closest living relatives with chimpanzees .
that means we have a common ancestor , an evolutionary grandmother , who lived about six million years ago .
well , chimpanzees are known for their aggressiveness .
but unfortunately , we have emphasized this aspect in the narrative of human evolution .
but bonobos show us the other side of the medal .
while chimpanzees are led by big , frightening guys , the bonobo society is led by empowered females .
they really have come up with something , because that leads to an excellent tolerant society where lethal violence has not been observed .
but unfortunately , bonobos are the least known among the primates .
they live in the deep congolese forest , and it &apos;s hard to observe .
the congo is a paradox -- a country of extraordinary biodiversity and beauty , but also the heart of darkness -- the scene of a violent argument that has been devastating for decades and demanding almost as many lives as the first world war .
economists call this a pareto improvement application .
it &apos;s not surprising that this destruction also threatens the survival of the bonobos .
meat trade and the decline of the tree leads to the fact that you couldn &apos;t even fill a stadium with the bonobos left -- and even we &apos;re not sure how to be honest .
and yet , in this country of violence and chaos , you can hear a hidden laugh that the trees are shattered .
who are these relatives ?
we know them as &quot; love instead of war &quot; monkeys , because they have frequent , too , bisexual sex , with changing partners , and rules so conflicts and social issues .
i &apos;m not saying that &apos;s the answer to all humanitarian problems -- because the life of the bonobos is more than the cama sutra .
bonobos -- like people -- love playing their lives .
play doesn &apos;t just mean child games .
for us and it &apos;s a game that is essential to the attachment of relationships and the care of tolerance .
and we learn the trust and the rules of the game .
the income distribution is going to make sure that everybody is doing better -- not just the poor -- because all of these big choices are plagued by us .
play is increasing creativity and resilience , and it &apos;s all about generating diversity -- diversity of interactions , diversity of behaviors , diversity of connections .
and if you look at bonobos in the game , you see the evolutionary origins of human salmon , dance and rituals .
play is the tickle that keeps us together .
now , i don &apos;t know how they &apos;re playing , but i want to show you some unique footage from the wild .
first of all , a ball game in bonobo-style -- and i don &apos;t think of football .
so here &apos;s a young female and male in a tracking game .
look at what she &apos;s doing .
that could be the evolutionary origin of , &quot; she grabs it in the eggs . &quot;
just that i think he likes it more , right .
yeah !
finally , please read this cartoon , and , a sophisticated person , says , &quot; ah ! what does this fish know ?
so sex games are distributed , both in bonobos and in humans .
and this video is really interesting , because it shows -- and this video is really interesting , because it shows the ingenuity with which you get new elements into the game -- like the testicles -- and also how the game requires both trust and promotes -- while at the same time it &apos;s immense fun .
but the game is a shape-shifter .
play is a shape-shifter , and it can take on many forms of some of which are a little bit more quiet , imaginative , curious -- maybe to rediscover the astonishing .
and i want to show you , this is fuku , a young female , and she plays peaceful with water .
i think just like them , sometimes we play alone , and we extend borders of our inner and outer worlds .
and it &apos;s this playful curiosity that makes us explore and interact , and the unexpected connections that we form are the real nutrition of creativity .
this is just a little taste of the insights that bonobos gives us in our past and present .
but they also have a secret to our future , a future in which we have to adapt to increasing challenges , through greater creativity and printing cooperation .
the secret is that the game is the key to these skills .
you don &apos;t know anything possible in this goldfish glass . &quot;
in other words , play is our adaptation joker .
to successfully adapt to an inconstant world , we have to play .
but are we going to make the best out of our play drive ?
play is not silly .
it &apos;s essential .
for bonobos and people equally , life is not made of teeth and claws alone .
even if it doesn &apos;t seem to be appropriate , it might be the most necessary game .
and so , my primate comrades , let &apos;s embrace and play this gift of evolution as we rediscover the creativity of the camera and the wonder .
thank you .
i want you to imagine two pairs , in the middle of 1979 , on exactly the same day , at the same moment , each baby -- okay .
impoverished imagination , a short-sighted view of the world -- and that &apos;s the way i first read it .
so two pairs , each baby .
now i don &apos;t want you to spend too much time imagining the creation , because , if you imagine the creation all the time , you won &apos;t listen to me .
just imagine for a moment .
and in this scenario , imagine that in one case , the sperm has a y chomosom hitting the x chromosome of the egg .
and in the other case , the sperm carries a x chromosome that hits the x chromosome of the egg .
both of them are survivable , both of them are light .
we &apos;ll come back to these people later .
for most of my activities , i have two hats .
under a hat , i &apos;m involved in the history of anatomy .
i &apos;m a historian , and in this case , i study how people were dealing with anatomy -- meaning human bodies , animal bodies -- how they were dealing with body fluids , with body concepts ; how they were thinking about bodies .
but the more i thought about it , the more i came to the point of view that the fish knows something .
the other hat that i &apos;ve worn in my work is the activist , as a patient lawyer -- or , as i sometimes say , as an impatient lawyer -- of people who are patients of doctors .
in this case , i worked with people who have body types , who challenge social norms .
so , for example , i worked with people who are siamesian twins , two people in a body .
i worked with people with dwarfs -- so people who were smaller than usual .
and very often , i &apos;ve been working with intersexual people whose gender is atypical -- so people who don &apos;t have the average male or female body types .
and as a general term , we can use the word intersexuality .
intersexuality is in many different forms .
i &apos;ll just give you a few examples of the possible types of sexual variants that are not like the male or female standard .
in one case , you might have somebody with a xy chromosome base , and the sry gene of the y chomosoms is the protogonads that we all have fetal stage to grow up .
and that &apos;s why the testosterone testosterone is in the fetal stages .
they raised these photographs from the forest floor , tried to see behind the face or the character , found nothing and concluded that these were business cards of the devil and killed the five missionaries with the spear .
because the truth is that if you break the goldfish glass , so that everything is possible , you don &apos;t have freedom . you have paralysis .
but because this individual is missing the receptors to see the testosterone , the body is not responding to the testosterone .
and this is called androgen-defect defects .
so a lot of testosterone , but no reaction to that .
as a consequence , the body develops more to the typical female course .
when the child is born , she looks like a girl .
she &apos;s a girl . she &apos;s raised as a girl .
but it &apos;s usually until she reaches puberty and her breasts grow and develop , but she doesn &apos;t get her period until someone comes to the fact that there &apos;s something different here .
and they do some tests , and they find that instead of sticking and uterus , she actually has testicles , and she has a y chromosome .
and it &apos;s important to understand that you could actually think of this person as male , but they &apos;re not really .
women , like men , have something in our bodies called adrenaline glands .
if you break the goldfish glass down so that everything is possible , you reduce happiness .
they &apos;re in the back of our body .
and the side kidneys make androgens , which are virilizing hormones .
most women , as i do -- i believe that being a typical woman -- i don &apos;t know my actual chromosome structure , but i think i probably have the typical -- most women like me actually talk about androgens .
we make androgen , and we respond to androgens .
the consequence is that somebody like me actually has a brain that was exposed to more androgens than a woman who was born with testicles and has an androgen defect .
so gender is really complicated ; intersexual is not only in the middle of the spectrum of gender -- in a sense , they can be spread across the entire bandwidth .
here &apos;s another example : a few years ago , i got a call from a 19 year-old man who was born as a boy , he had a friend , he had sex with his girlfriend , lived as a man , and he had just found out that he had eggs and a uterus .
he had an extreme sort of an innate side beef hyperbubble .
he has xx chromosome , and in the womb , his side kidneys were so active that they basically created a male hormone environment .
and as a consequence , his genitaly were male , his brain was exposed to the more typical male part of the hormone spectrum .
they increase the paralysis and reduce the happiness .
and when he was born , he looked like a boy -- no one had any idea .
and it wasn &apos;t until he turned 19 that he got enough medical problems , actually , because he insisted that the doctors found that he was female inside .
okay , just a quick example of a variation of intersexuality .
some people with xx chromosomes , they develop something called ovotestis , where ovotestine tissue is wrapped up .
we don &apos;t know exactly why this is happening .
so gender can occur in many different varieties .
the reason why kids with this kind of body -- whether it &apos;s dwarf , or siamesian twins , be it intersexual -- are often adapted to the norm by surgeons is not because it would be beneficial to their physical health .
in many cases , these people are completely healthy .
the reason why they often have different kinds of surgical interventions is because they threaten our social categories .
typically , our system is based on the idea that a particular anatomical leap is about a certain identity .
everybody needs a goldfish glass .
so we have the concept that being a woman is to have a female identity ; to be a black person , which is to have an african anatomy in terms of their own story .
so we have this terribly simplistic idea .
and when we &apos;re faced with a body that actually represents something very different to us , we &apos;re confused about these categorizations .
so we have a lot of romantic ideas in our culture about individualism .
and our nation is really based on a very romantic concept of individualism .
now you can imagine how amazing it is when children are born , who are two people in a body .
where i had experienced most of the excitement recently was the south african runner caster semenya last year , whose gender was challenged by the world cup in berlin .
many journalists called me on the question , &quot; what are you going to test that tells us whether caster semenya is female or male ? &quot;
and i had to explain to the journalists that there &apos;s no test .
we now know that gender is complicated enough , that we have to admit that nature for us doesn &apos;t draw a line between male and female , or between male and intersexually and intersexually , and tactile , it &apos;s us that pretend that line as natural .
this is almost too limited to complete security -- possibly to the fish , definitely to us .
so we have a situation where , as our science continues , we have to admit more that these categories that we thought were stable anatomic categories that made very simple arrangements to create permanent identity categories are much more fuzzy than we thought we were .
and it &apos;s not just about gender .
it &apos;s also true of race , which turns out to be much more complicated than our terminology has allowed .
in our views , we got into all sorts of inconvenient areas .
for example , we find that we have at least 95 percent of our dna in common with chimpanzees .
what are we going to do with the fact that we &apos;re only going to distinguish from them by a few nucleotides ?
as we keep pushing our science forward , we &apos;re getting into a zone of discomfort , where we have to recognize that the simplistic categories that we &apos;ve had are probably too simple .
we see this in all sorts of different parts of human life .
one of the areas in which we see this as the beipiel , in our culture today , in the united states , are the fighting over the beginning and the end of life .
we have difficult conversations about where a body becomes human , so that it has a different right than fetal life .
but the hanging off of a metaphorical goldfish glass is a recipe for misery , and , i guess , catastrophe .
we have very difficult conversations today -- maybe not as public as in medicine -- about the question of when someone is dead .
our ancestors never had that hard to fight with the question of when someone was dead .
you &apos;ve got somebody holding a feather under your nose , and when it moved , you haven &apos;t buried it yet .
when it didn &apos;t move , you buried it .
but today we &apos;re in a situation where we take people &apos;s vital organs and want to plant them to other people .
and as a result , we &apos;re caught in the fight with the really difficult question of when someone is dead , and that brings us into a really difficult situation where we don &apos;t have as simple categories as we used to .
now you might think that the whole collapse of categories would make someone like me really happy .
i &apos;m a political progressive , i defend people with unusual bodies , but i have to admit it makes me nervous .
to realize that these categories are actually much more insecure than we thought makes me excited .
and it makes me excited about thinking about democracy .
thank you very much .
so to tell you about this tension , i have to first know that i &apos;m a big fan of the founding fathers .
i know they were racist , i know they were sexist , but they were great .
i think they were so brave and strong , and so radical , in what they did , that every few years , i &apos;m going to see the narrow musical 1776 , and it &apos;s not because of the music that &apos;s totally forgotten .
it &apos;s because of what happened in 1776 with the founding fathers .
the founding fathers , in my view , were the original anatomic activists , and that &apos;s why .
what they returned to was an anatomical concept , and they replaced it through another that was radical and beautiful , and 200 years was essential to us .
as you all remember , our founding fathers rejected the concept of monarchy , and the monarchy was basically based on a very simplified concept of anatomy .
the rulers of the old world didn &apos;t have a concept based on the dna , but they had a concept of the birth right .
they had a concept of blue blood .
they thought that people who had political power should have this political power because of the inherited bloodline from grandfather to father and so on .
you know , i &apos;ve talked about some of these projects before , about the human genome and what that might mean , and the discovery of new groups of genes .
the founding fathers returned this idea and replaced it through a new anatomical concept , and this concept said that all people were created equally .
they nivellized the playground , and they decided that anatomically , they counted the similarities , not the differences , and that was very radical .
now they did this part because they were part of an enlightening system where two things grew up together .
democracy grew , but at the same time , science grew .
if you look at the story of the founding fathers , it &apos;s clear that many of them were very interested in science , and they were interested in a concept of a naturalistic world .
they went away from explanations of supernatural nature , and they proved things like a supernatural concept of power , where the transmission is based on a very vague concepts of birth law .
they moved to a naturalistic concept .
and if you look at the declaration of independence , for example , they talk about nature and the god of nature .
they don &apos;t talk about god and the nature of god .
they talk about the power of nature to tell us who we are .
in fact , we &apos;re starting from a new point : we &apos;ve digitized biology , and now we &apos;re trying to get from the digital code into a new phase of biology by designing and building new life .
and as part of that , they gave us a concept that was about anatomical commonalities .
and so they really wonderfully prepared the future civil rights movement .
they didn &apos;t think about it that way , but what they did for us was great .
so what happened years after that ?
for example , women who aspired the right to vote , the concept of founding fathers , which says that anatomical commonality is more important than the anatomical difference , and said , &quot; we have a uterus and egg sticks than difference doesn &apos;t matter enough that we shouldn &apos;t have the right to own the right to full citizenship , the right to ownership , etc . , etc . &quot;
and women argued it successfully .
next was the successful civil rights movement , where we saw people like sotravel truth , who were saying , &quot; am i not a woman ? &quot;
we find men in the marching rows of the citizenship movement saying , &quot; i &apos;m a man . &quot;
again , people of different skin color that are based on anatomical similarities from anatomical differences , again , successfully .
we see the same thing in the disabled legal movement .
we &apos;ve always tried to ask significant questions .
the problem , of course , is that , as we start to look at all the commonalities , we have to start to question , why do we maintain certain separations ?
well , i want to keep certain divisions , anatomically , in our culture .
i don &apos;t want to give a fish the same rights as a human being .
i don &apos;t want to say that we should take away from anatomy .
i don &apos;t want to say that five year-olds should have the right to give their consent to sex or to marry .
so there are some anatomical separations that make sense to me , and that we should , i think , keep .
but the challenge is to try to figure out which ones are and why we keep them , and whether they &apos;re meaningful .
so let &apos;s go back to these two creatures that have been discarded at the beginning of the talk .
we have two creatures , both in the middle of 1979 on the exact same day .
so let &apos;s imagine that one of them , maria , was born three months earlier , so she was born on june one , 1980 .
we go through initiation rituals .
but the waorani didn &apos;t just kill the outsiders with the spear .
what is life ? it &apos;s something that i think a lot of biologists have tried to understand and to understand at different levels .
heinrich , on the other hand , is born for the birth of the birthday , so he &apos;s born on march one , 1980 .
just because of the fact that maria was born three months old , she &apos;s going to get all sorts of rights three months before heinrich -- the right to have incorporate sex , the right to choose , the right to drink .
heinrich has to wait for all of this , not because he actually has another biological age , just because of the period of his birth .
we find other odds about what their rights are .
heinrich , because you assume that he &apos;s male -- although i didn &apos;t tell you that he &apos;s xy -- because you think he &apos;s male , he can now be drawn in what maria doesn &apos;t have to worry about .
maria , on the other hand , can &apos;t perceive the same right in all states that heinrich in all states has the right to marry .
heinrich can marry a woman in every state , but maria can only marry a woman in a few states today .
so we have these permanent anatomical categories that are problematic and questionable in many ways .
and for me , the question is , what are we going to do , because our science is going to make such progress in the field of anatomy , that we &apos;re going to get to a point where we have to admit that a democracy based on anatomy might fall apart ?
i don &apos;t want to give up science , but at the same time , sometimes it feels like science is self-perpetuating .
we tried different approaches to simplify it down to the minimum components .
so where do we go ?
it seems that our culture has a kind of pragmatic posture : &quot; well , we have to pull a line somewhere , so we pull it somewhere . &quot;
but a lot of people get caught in a very strange position .
so for example , texas at a point decided that marrying a man means that you don &apos;t have a y chromosome and marry a woman means you have a y chromosome .
now in practice , people are not tested on their chromosome .
but it &apos;s also very bizarre because of the story i told you about the androgen defect at the beginning .
if we look at one of the founding fathers of modern democracy , dr. martin luther king , he offers us in his &quot; i have a dream &quot; a kind of solution .
he says we shouldn &apos;t judge people for &quot; their skin color , &quot; but by the trait of their character , and goes beyond anatomy like that .
and i want to say , &quot; yes , that sounds like a really good idea . &quot;
but how do you do that in practice ?
we &apos;ve digitized almost 20 years , and when we sequenced the human genome , the shift from the analog world of biology to the digital world of computers .
how do you judge people because of their character traits ?
i also want to point out that i &apos;m not sure that we should distribute rights in terms of people like this , because i have to admit that i know a series of golden retriever , which probably deserves social benefits rather than some people i know .
and i want to say that i probably know some bright labrador dogs that are more capable , more intelligent and more mature decisions about their sexual relations than some 40-year-olds i know .
so how are we going to operate the question of the characteristics of the character ?
it turns out to be really difficult .
and part of me wonders , what if the content of a personality was something that could be done in the future with machine readable -- using fmri , could be visible ?
do we really want to go this way ?
i &apos;m not sure where we go .
what i know is that it really seems to be important to think about the idea that the united states is leading to think about questions of democracy .
in our effort for democracy , we did really well , and i think we would do well in the future .
now we &apos;re trying to ask , can we regenerate life , or can we create new life , from this digital universe ?
we don &apos;t have the situation , like it is in iran , where a man who is sexually drawn to other men is punished with death , unless he is willing to undergo a gender transformation in which case he can stay alive .
these kinds of states don &apos;t exist with us .
i &apos;m glad to say that we don &apos;t have these states -- a surgeon that i talked to a few years ago that had brought some siamesian twins to separate them , partly to make a name .
but when i was telephone with him , and i asked him why he was doing these interventions -- they were highly risky surgeries -- his answer was that in his country , these kids would be very poorly treated , and therefore he had to do it .
i said to him , &quot; well , did you consider political asyl instead of having an operation to separate it ? &quot;
the united states provides incredible opportunities to allow people to be the ones they are without having to change around the state .
so i think we have to be a leader .
well , just to conclude , i want to notice that i &apos;ve talked a lot about the fathers .
and i want to think about the possibilities of what democracy might look like , or what might have looked like , if we had more involved the mothers .
and i want to say something that &apos;s a little bit radical for a feminist , and that is , i think there might be different kinds of insights that are used by different kinds of anatomy , especially when people are using group thinking .
this is the map of a small organism , mycoplasma geitalium , which has the smallest genome of a species that can replicate itself in the lab , and we &apos;ve tried to do that with a smaller genome .
for years , because i &apos;ve been interested in intersexuality , i &apos;ve also been interested in research in gender differences .
and one of the things that i found really interesting is the difference between men and women in terms of how they think and operate in the world .
what we &apos;ve learned from cross-cultural studies is that women , on average -- not each , but on average -- tend to be more complex social relations and the care for people who are vulnerable within the group , are very much attention .
and so , when we think about it , we have an interesting situation in front of us .
years ago , when i was a graduate student , one of my graduate students asked me who knew my interest in feminism -- i looked at myself as a feminist , i still do it -- a really strange question .
he said , &quot; tell me what &apos;s female in feminism . &quot;
and i thought , &quot; well , that &apos;s the stupidest question i &apos;ve ever heard .
feminism is about solving stereotypes about gender , which is why feminism is not female .
but the more i thought about his question , the more i thought there could be something female in feminism .
that means that there could be something , on average , that female brains are different from male brains , which makes us more attention to very complex social relationships , and more attention to the protective needs .
we &apos;ve managed to avoid about a hundred genes from the 500 or so that are here .
so where the founding fathers were extremely suspicious of figuring out how to protect individuals from the state , it &apos;s possible that if we put more mothers into this concept , we get more of a concept , not just how to protect them , but how to care for each other .
and maybe it &apos;s where we have to go in the future when we do democracy beyond anatomy -- think less about the individual body in terms of identity , and think more about relationships .
so that if we as people try to make a more perfect connection , we think about what we can do for each other .
thank you .
i &apos;m jessi , and this is my suitcase .
but before i show you what i have in it , i &apos;m going to make a very public confession , and that is , i &apos;m obsessed with outfits .
i love to find , at every opportunity , a different colorful , crazy outfit , to wear , and also to photograph and blog recently .
but i don &apos;t buy anything new .
i get all my clothes from the second hand on flowing markets and second-hand shops .
ooh , thank you .
but if we look at this metabolic map , which is very simple , compared to ours . trust me , that &apos;s simple . but if we look at all these genes that we can eliminate one by the other , it &apos;s very unlikely that this would lead to a living cell .
second-hand shopping allows me to reduce the impact of my garderobe to the environment and also to my purse .
i meet all sorts of great people ; my dollars usually serve a good purpose ; i look pretty unique ; and it makes a shopping for my own personal goodbye .
i mean , what am i going to find today ?
is it going to be my size ?
am i going to like the color ?
is it going to cost less than 20 dollars ?
when all the answers are yes , i feel like i &apos;ve won .
i &apos;ll come back to my suitcase and tell you what i &apos;ve been packing for this exciting week here at ted .
i mean , what is anybody doing with so many outfits ?
so i &apos;m going to show you exactly what i brought with me .
so we decided that the only way forward is to actually synthesize this chromosome , which allows us to vary the individual components and ask some of these fundamental questions .
i brought seven underpants , and that &apos;s all .
underpants for exactly a week are all i did in my suitcase .
i woke up that i would find anything else i might want to wear if i first came to palm springs .
and since you haven &apos;t heard of me as the woman who &apos;s walking around here at ted in her underwear -- that is , i &apos;ve found a couple of things .
and i really want to show you my outfits this week .
does that sound good ?
as i do that , i &apos;m also going to leave you with some of the lessons that i &apos;ve learned , believe it or not , from these adventures , not to wear anything new .
let &apos;s start with sunday .
i call this the bright tiger .
you don &apos;t have to spend a lot of money looking great .
and so we started with the question , can we synthesize a chromosome ?
you can almost always look great for less than 50 dollars .
this whole outfit , including the jacket , cost me 55 , and it was the most expensive piece that i was wearing all week .
monday : color is something powerful .
it &apos;s almost physiologically impossible to be miserable when you &apos;re wearing light red pants .
if you &apos;re happy , you attract other happy people .
tuesday : adaptation is totally overrated .
i spent a lot of my life trying to be myself and adapt at the same time .
just be who you are .
if you surround yourself with the right people , you will not only understand it , you will appreciate it .
wednesday : embrace your inner child .
does chemistry enable the chemistry to make these really big molecules that have never been done before ?
sometimes people tell me , i look like i &apos;m dressed up , or i &apos;m reminding you of your seven-year-olds .
and i like to smile and say , &quot; thank you . &quot;
thursday : confidence is the key .
if you think you look good in something , it &apos;s almost safe .
and if you think you don &apos;t look good in something , you &apos;re probably right .
i grew up with a mother who taught me that day after day .
but it wasn &apos;t until i turned 30 that i really understood what that means .
and i &apos;m going to summarize that for you for a moment .
if you think you &apos;re inside and outside a wonderful person , there &apos;s nothing you can &apos;t wear .
so there &apos;s no excuse for somebody here in this audience .
they drilled through each other .
and if we can do that , can we start the chromosome ?
we should be able to rock everything we want .
thank you .
friday : a universal truth -- five words : golden pailles fit to everything .
and finally , saturday : developing a unique , personal style is a great way to tell the world about you without having to say a word .
it was proven to me over and over again , when people came up to me this week , just because of what i was wearing , and i had great conversations .
obviously , this is not going to fit in my tiny suitcase .
so before i go home to brooklyn , i &apos;m going to donate all this again .
because the lesson that i &apos;m trying to learn this week is that it &apos;s okay to let go .
i don &apos;t have to emotionally arrest these things , because right around the corner , there &apos;s always going to be another crazy , colorful , radiation outfit that &apos;s just waiting for me if i have a little love in my heart and i &apos;m looking for it .
thank you very much .
a chromosome is just a piece of chemical material , by the way .
thank you .
good afternoon , all together .
i have something i want to show you here .
think of this as a visual point , as a flying point .
that &apos;s what we call in our lab , perceptual design .
let me tell you a little bit about it .
now , if you take this picture -- i &apos;m originally italian , and every boy in italy grows up with this image in his room , but the reason i &apos;m going to show you this is because of the formula 1 in the past decades , something very interesting happened .
some time ago , if you wanted to win a formula one race , you took your budget and you put your money on a good driver and a good car .
and if the car and the driver were good enough , they won the race .
now today , you need , if you want to win a race , in fact , something like this -- something that &apos;s monitoring the car in real time , has a few thousand sensors , the information from the car , pass that information on to the system , and then process it and then use it to send back decisions and change things in real time while information is collected .
our steps in digitizing life were exponential .
this is what you would call , in engineering teams , a real-time control system .
and basically , it &apos;s a system that &apos;s made of two parts -- a sentient part and a reacting part .
what &apos;s interesting today is the real-time control systems begin to emerge in our lives .
our cities , in the last few years , have been equipped with networks and electronics .
they become free computers .
and as computers in the free , they start to react in a different way , they &apos;re perceived and driven .
if we make cities , it &apos;s actually a big deal .
by the way , i want to mention that cities are only two percent of the world &apos;s land , but 50 percent of the world &apos;s population is there .
they &apos;re 75 percent of the energy consumption -- it &apos;s up to 80 percent of the co2 emissions .
so if we do something with cities , that &apos;s a big deal .
our ability to write genetic code has been evolving very slowly , but it &apos;s still increasing , and our last point would now be on an exponential curve .
beyond the cities , all this sense and drive into objects of everyday life .
this is from an exhibition that organizes paola antonelli for moma later in the year , during the summer .
it &apos;s called &quot; talk to me . &quot;
now , all of our objects , our environment , begin to speak back to us .
in a sense , it &apos;s almost like every atom out there becomes both a sensor and a driver .
and this is radically changing the interaction that we humans have in our environment .
in a way , it &apos;s almost like the old dream of michelangelo ...
you know , when michelangelo shaped the moses , it means that he ended up taking the hammer and threw it on moses -- in fact , you can still see a little spot underneath it -- and said , &quot; perché non parli ? why don &apos;t you talk ? &quot;
well , today , our environment begins for the first time to respond to us .
i &apos;m just going to show you a few examples -- again , the idea of perceiving and pushing our environment .
we started this 15 years ago .
let &apos;s start off with that .
now the first project i want to show you is actually one of the first of our labs .
it was born in italy four and a half years ago .
and what we were doing was actually using a new kind of network that was used all over the world -- that &apos;s a mobile phone network -- and using anonymous and aggregated information from this network that is now collected from the operator to understand how the city works .
the summer was a happy summer -- 2006 .
it was when italy won the football world cup .
some of you will remember , it was when italy was playing against france , and then at the end of zidane , the head shock .
and anyway , italy ended up winning at the end .
now look at what happened that day , just watching the activity that happens in the network .
here you see the city .
it actually took a few years to start with a bioethical review before we did the first experiments .
you see in the middle the colosseum , the tiber .
in the morning , before the game .
you see the timeline up there .
early afternoon , people here and there who are calling and moving .
the game starts -- silence .
france makes a tor . italy makes a gateway .
half-time , people make a short call , go to toilet .
second half-time . end of the normal playtime .
first extension , second .
zidane , in a moment of the head shock .
it turns out that dna synthesization is very difficult .
italy wins . yeah .
well , that night , everybody went to the center to celebrate .
they saw the big impact .
the next day , everybody went to the center to meet the winning team and the prime minister at the same time .
and then everybody went down .
you see the picture of the space about co massimo , where , since the roman time , people are going to celebrate -- to have a big party , and you see the impact at the end of the day .
now , this is just one example of how we can feel the city today in a way that we couldn &apos;t do a few years ago .
another example of feeling , this is not about people , but it &apos;s about things that we use and consume .
well , today we know everything about where our things come from .
this is a map that shows you all the chips that make up a mac computer , how they came together .
there are tens of thousands of machines around the world that can make little bits of dna , 30 to 50 letters long , but it &apos;s a degenerative process , so the longer you make a piece , the more mistakes happen .
but we know very little about where things go .
so in this project , we actually designed some little markers to track the garbage as it goes through the system .
so we started with some volunteers who helped us , a little over a year ago , in seattle , to tag the things that they threw away -- different kinds of things , as you can see -- things that they would throw away anyway .
then we have the little chips , the little brands , glued on the garbage and started tracking it .
here are the results that we just got .
from seattle ...
after a week .
with this information , we realized that there are a lot of inefficiency in the system .
we can actually do the same things with less energy .
the data was not available before .
so we had to develop a new method where we could put these little pieces together and correct the mistakes .
but that happens to a lot of unuseful transportation and complicated things .
but the other thing is that we believe that when we see every day , that the cup we throw away doesn &apos;t just disappear , that it &apos;s still somewhere on the planet .
and the plastic bottle that we &apos;re throwing away every day is still there .
and if we were to show that to people , then we can make a behavioral change .
so that &apos;s the reason for this project .
my colleague at mit , assaf biderman , could tell you much more about perceiving and the many other wonderful things that you can perceive , but i &apos;d like to talk about the second part that we discussed at the beginning , and that &apos;s the emphasis of our environment .
and the first project is something that we did a few years ago in zaragoza , spain .
it began with a question of the mayor who came to us and said that spain and south europe have a beautiful tradition to use water as part of architecture in public places .
and the question was : how could you connect technology , new technology ?
and one of the ideas that was investigated at mit in a workforce was , imagine these tubes , and valves , magnetic valves , valves that open and close .
this was our first attempt , starting with the digital information , the genome phi x 174 .
they &apos;re doing something like a water curtain with points of water .
if these images fall down , you can write on them , you can display patterns , images , text .
and you can approach him , and he &apos;s going to open up to let them jump through , as you can see in this picture .
well , we introduced the mayor belhole .
he really enjoyed it .
and we got the assignment to design a building in the entrance of the expo .
we called it the digital water pavillion .
the whole building was made of water .
there are no doors or windows , but if you approach it , it will open and it will let you in .
the roof was covered with water as well .
54 percent of the deaths happened by drilling .
it &apos;s a little virus that kills bacteria .
and if it &apos;s windy , if you want to reduce the syringes , you can actually leave the roof down .
or you could close the building and become the whole architecture , like in this case , you know , this day , when you go down the roof , you get pictures of people who were there and say , &quot; you &apos;ve destroyed the building . &quot;
no , they didn &apos;t destroy the building , it &apos;s just that architecture almost disappears .
here &apos;s how the building works .
you see the person who &apos;s wondering what &apos;s going on inside .
and here you see me when i was trying to test the sensors that opened the water , not getting wet .
now , i should tell you what happened one night when all the sensors stopped working .
but in fact , that night , it was a much more fun one .
all the zaragoza children came to the building , because the way they played with the building was very different .
no longer a building that would open up to let them go , but a building that still had breaks and holes in the water , you had to jump without getting wet .
we made little pieces , we made a error correction , and we had a dna molecule of about 5,000 letters .
and that was , for us , very exciting , because as architects , engineers , as designers , we always think about how the people , the things that we design .
but reality is always unpredictable .
and that &apos;s the beauty of creating things that are used and interacting with people .
so here &apos;s a picture of the building with the physical dots , the images of water and the projections on it .
and this is what made us think about the following project that i &apos;m going to show you now .
imagine if these images could really start to fly .
imagine if you could have little helicopters flying through the air , and each of you with a little image point of change -- almost like a cloud that can move through the room .
here &apos;s the video .
imagine a helicopter , like the one you saw before , that moves with others , completely synchronized .
you can have this cloud .
the exciting phase came when we took this piece of informed chemical and put it into a bacterium , and the bacteria started reading the genetic code and made viral particles .
you can have a kind of flexible screen or display , like this -- a smooth formation in two dimensions .
or unregularly , in three dimensions , where what changes is the light , not the position of the images .
they can play with different kinds .
imagine if the screen could just appear in different formats or sizes , in different resolution .
but then it could only be a 3d cloud of images that you can go to and move through , that you can look at from many , many directions .
here you see a real flyfire-controller that goes down to form a smooth v like before .
when you turn on the light , it looks like this , so the same way we saw it before .
imagine that every single one is controlled by people .
it could have every single image of a pulse that comes from people , from the movements of people or something .
i want to show you something here first .
the viral particles were then released by the cells and came back and killed e. coli .
we &apos;ve worked with roberto bolle , one of the best ballet dancers of our time -- the étoile at the metropolitan theater in new york and the scale in milan -- we &apos;ve taken his movements in 3d to use it as a impulse to the flyfire .
here you see roberto dancing .
on the left , you see the images , the different captured impressions .
it &apos;s simultaneously a real-time 3d scan and a motion shot .
so you can understand the whole movement .
you can do this all the time .
but then once we have all the images , you can play with it and play with color gravity and motion .
we want to use that as a possible impulse for flyfire .
i want to show you the latest project we &apos;re working on .
it &apos;s something we &apos;re working on for the olympics in london .
i talked to the oil industry recently , and they said they were doing this model precisely .
it &apos;s called the cloud -- the cloud .
the idea is , again , imagine what we &apos;re doing with people to do something and to change the environment -- almost what we call the &quot; cloud movement &quot; as you move a checklist , but with a cloud .
imagine that anyone can give a little donation to a point of view .
i think that the remarkable thing about the past few years , the last decade , is that we &apos;ve moved from a physical to a digital world .
this has digitized everything , knowledge , and it &apos;s making it available through the internet .
today , for the first time -- and the campaign of obamas has shown this -- we can move from the digital world , from the self-organizing forces of the networks to the physical world .
this can be , in our case , that we use it to design and create a symbol .
that means something that &apos;s built in the city .
but tomorrow , to face the challenges that are coming -- think about climate change or co2 emissions -- how can we go from the digital world to the physical world ?
so the idea is that we actually bring people in , where they &apos;re doing things together , collectively .
they laughed more than you do here .
the cloud is again a cloud of images , in the same way as a real cloud is a cloud of particles .
and these particles are water , while our cloud is a cloud of images .
it &apos;s a physical form in london , but it &apos;s covered with images .
they can move inside and make different kinds of experiences .
you can actually look at it from the bottom , share the most important moments of olympics in 2012 and beyond , and use it as a kind of connection to the community .
so both , the physical cloud in the sky and something that you can go to , like london &apos;s new mountain summit .
you can go in .
and a kind of digital glow in the night -- but most important , a new kind of experience for anyone who wants to go to the top .
thank you .
as an artist , i &apos;m very important in the context .
so we think that this is a situation where software can actually build its own hardware in a biological system .
through my work , i &apos;m trying to express that people are not separate from nature , and that everything is interconnected .
the first time i was in antarctica about 10 years ago , where i saw my first iceberg .
i got awe .
my heart raced , i was dizzy , while i was trying to grab what was in front of me .
the icebergs around me raced almost 60 meters out of the water , and i could only wonder that this was a snowflake on another snowflake , year after year .
iceberg is born as a calf of a glacier , or by breaking out of ice customs .
every iceberg has its own individual personality .
they &apos;re clearly interacting with their environment and their experience .
some of them refuse to give up and grab to the bitter end , while others don &apos;t stop and collapse in a seizure of dramatic passion .
when you look at an iceberg , you think it &apos;s easy to be isolated , separated and alone , just like we humans often see each other .
but we wanted to go even further . we wanted to build a whole bacterial chromosome . it has more than 580,000 letters of genetic code . so we thought , we &apos;re going to build it in cassette tapes of the size of the virus where we could vary the size of the cassette tape to understand what the individual components of a living cell are .
but the truth is far from it .
as an iceberg melts , i breathe its pre-time atmosphere .
as the iceberg melts , it releases mineral drinking water that feeds many forms of life .
i &apos;m going to go into my recordings of these icebergs as if i &apos;m going to make portraits of my ancestors , in the consciousness that they exist in these individual moments of this kind of way , and never exist again .
it &apos;s not a death when you melt ; it &apos;s not an end , it &apos;s a continuation of your path along the life cycle .
part of the ice in the iceberg that i &apos;m photographing is very young -- a few thousand years old .
and part of the ice is more than 100,000 years old .
the last images i &apos;d like to show you are an iceberg that i photographed in kekertsuatsiak in greenland .
very rarely , you &apos;re actually witnessing a rolling iceberg .
here you see it .
design is the key , and if you want to start with digital information in the computer , this digital information really has to be mis-free .
on the left you see a little boat .
that &apos;s about five meters long .
please pay attention to the shape of the iceberg and where it is in the water line .
you can see here , it starts rolling , and the boat has moved to the other side , the man is standing there .
this is the average size of a greenland iceberg .
it &apos;s about 120 feet from the water , or 40 meters .
and this video is real time .
and just like this , the iceberg shows you a different side of his personality .
thank you .
my life is really extraordinarily blessed by working on some amazing projects .
when we first sequenced the genome in 1995 , the error rate was a mistake per 10,000 base pair .
but the coolest thing i &apos;ve ever worked on is this guy .
his name is tempt .
tempt was one of the leading graffiti artists of the &apos; 80s .
then one day , he came back from walking and said , &quot; dad , my legs cribble . &quot;
and that was the outbreak of the als .
tempt is completely paralyzed today .
he can only use his eyes .
i was faced with him .
so i have a company that makes design and animations , so graffiti is inevitably a complex part of what we admire and pay attention to in the art world .
so we decided to support tony -- tempt -- and to support his thing .
we tracked the geneaology eight generations back and found two cases of a natural death , and when we asked people about it with pressure , they admitted that one of the people had become so old that he died because of his age , and we killed him still with the spear .
we found 30 errors in resurrecting , and if we had used the original sequence , it would never have been possible to go up .
i met with his father and his brother and said , &quot; we &apos;re going to give you this money .
what are you going to do with it ? &quot;
and his brother said , &quot; i just want to talk to tony again .
i just want to go back to him , and i said , &quot; wait a minute , isn &apos;t that -- i saw stephen hawking -- can &apos;t all the paralyzed people communicate with these devices ? &quot;
and he said , &quot; no , only if you have a higher social layer and a remarkable insurance , you can actually do that .
normal people are not accessible to these devices . &quot;
and i said , &quot; how do you communicate ? &quot;
did anybody see the movie &quot; butterfly &quot; and &quot; diving bell ?
that &apos;s how they communicate -- that &apos;s how their fingers go .
i was like , &quot; very archaic , how can that be ? &quot;
part of the design is to make pieces that are 50 letters long and that have to overlap with other 50-letter pieces to build smaller sub-units so that they fit together .
so i came up with the need to just put out a check , and instead i put out a check that i didn &apos;t have the easiest idea of how to fix it .
i committed myself to the point of his brother and father -- in the words , &quot; well , my proposal is this : tony &apos;s going to speak , we &apos;re going to get him a device , and we &apos;re going to find a way to make his art again .
because it &apos;s a farce that somebody who &apos;s carrying all this stuff can &apos;t communicate it . &quot;
so i spoke at a conference a few months later .
i met these people from grl , graffiti research lab , and they have a technology that allows them to project a light on any surface and then draw it with a laser pointer that only registers the negative area .
so they go around and do art installations like this .
they say that all the things that are shown up there are going to follow a life cycle .
it starts with the sex parts , and then the shrinks come , then the bush publishing , and finally , people actually do art .
but there was always a life cycle in their presentations .
so i went home and i ate with my wife at night , and i told her about everything , and we thought , &quot; well , wait a second , if there &apos;s this technology that you can use your eyes to control things , then we should find a way that speed can control a laser , so that he can do graffiti again , that would be great . &quot;
we &apos;ve built unique elements here .
that was the beginning of the journey .
and about two years later , about a year later , after a lot of organization and a lot of things , we &apos;ve achieved some things .
first , we got the insurance on the doors , and we actually got a device at tempt that he can communicate with -- a stephen hawking machine .
that was incredible .
and he &apos;s really extremely funny -- i call him yoda , because you talk to him , or you get an email , and you think , &quot; i &apos;m so unworthy , this guy is incredible . &quot;
we also flew seven programmers from all over the world -- literally from all over the world -- home .
my wife , my children and i moved to the garage , and these hackers and programmers and conspiracy theorists and anarchists have taken over our house .
a lot of our friends thought we were pretty stupid to do this , and we came back and all the images on the walls were graffitis .
but for over two weeks , we programmed , we went to the venice beach , my kids were involved , and my dog was also , and we created this .
it &apos;s called eyewriter , and you can see the description .
you may have heard that we built watermarks .
this is a cheap sunglasses that we bought on the venice beaches , some copper wire and some things out of the construction market and the electronics trade .
we took a ps3 camera , we put it together , we put it on a led light , and now we have a device that &apos;s free -- you can build it yourself , we provide the code for free , you can download the software for free .
so we &apos;ve created a device that &apos;s completely free of constraints .
no insurance can be made .
no hospital .
every paralyzed person can actually communicate or draw alone with their eyes .
thank you .
thank you very much , that was incredible .
so at the end of the two weeks , we went back to tempt &apos;s room .
i love this picture because it &apos;s somebody else &apos;s room , and that &apos;s his room .
think about it : we have a four-letter code : a , c , g and t .
now there &apos;s all this rummel before the great unveiling .
and after over a year of planning , two weeks of programming , nudelparties and nights , tony drew back after seven years .
and this is an amazing picture , because this is his life support system , and it looks beyond his life support system .
we removed his bed so that he can look out .
we set up a projector against a wall of the parking lot before the hospital .
and he drew again for the first time , in both his family and friends -- and you can only imagine what a sense that was in the parking lot .
and luckily , we had to break into the parking lot , so we felt right as part of the spray scene .
at the end of the day , he sent us an email with the following content : &quot; for the first time in seven years , i drew something .
i feel like i was pushed underwater , and finally someone took down and pulled my head up so i could breathe . &quot;
isn &apos;t that overwhelming ?
triplets of these letters -- these letters encode about 20 amino acids ; and here &apos;s a single determination for each of these amino acids .
this is something like our fight scream .
that keeps us at the pole and makes us evolve and evolve .
and we need to improve a lot more on this device .
it &apos;s an amazing device , but it &apos;s the same with a magic board .
and someone who has such an artistic potential deserves so much more .
so we &apos;re trying to figure out how to make it better , faster and stronger .
since that time , we &apos;ve been getting all sorts of recognition .
we won some prices .
remember , it &apos;s free , none of us deserve it .
it all comes from our own pockets .
so we can use the genetic code to write our words , sentences , thoughts .
so the awards were , &quot; oh , that &apos;s fantastic . &quot;
armstrong twitter about us , and then , in december , the time-magazine honored us as one of the 50 best inventions in 2010 , which was really great .
the coolest thing about this -- and this is the whole circle -- is that there will be an exhibition in the inner city of los angeles called the art of the streets .
and there will probably be pretty much the toughest representatives of the street art scene -- banksy , shepard fairey , caws -- all these guys will be there .
tempt will be part of the show , which is quite crumbling .
so basically , i &apos;m going to talk about this : if you see something that &apos;s impossible , make it possible .
everything in this room was impossible -- this stage , this computer , this microphone , the eyewriter -- everything was impossible at some point .
make it possible -- all of you here .
i &apos;m not a programmer , and i &apos;ve never had anything to do with fiber technology , but i just captured something and surrounded myself with amazing people so that we could put something on the legs together .
and that question should all of you ask yourself , every single day , where you have to do something that needs to be done . if not now , when ? and if not me , who ?
at the beginning , we just signed .
thank you .
so , i write for children , and i &apos;m probably america &apos;s most of the children &apos;s book .
and i always tell people that i don &apos;t want to come from it like a scientist .
you can have me as a farmer , or you can have me in leather , but nobody has ever chosen farmers .
today , i want to tell you about circles and revelations .
well , an epiphany is usually something that you find because you &apos;ve dropped it somewhere .
you go around the block and you take it as an epiphany .
this is a painting of a circle .
one of my friends did it -- richard bollingbroke .
it &apos;s the kind of complicated circle that i want to tell you about today .
some people were disappointed that it was not poetry .
my circle started in the &apos; 60s at the high school in stow , ohio , where i was the classroom coat .
i was the one who was beaten in the virgin &apos; toilet green and blue every week , until a teacher saved my life .
she saved my life by letting me use the toilet in the teacher &apos;s room .
that &apos;s what she did secretly .
she did it for three years .
and i had to go out of the city .
i had a thumb , i had 85 dollars , and it hit me to san francisco -- i found a lover -- and in the &apos; 80s , i found it important to do a job with aids organizations .
about three or four years ago , i got a phone call from this teacher , woman post in the middle of the night , saying , &quot; i have to see you .
i &apos;m sad that we &apos;ve never met each other as adults .
can you please come to ohio , and please come together with the man that i know you &apos;ve found in the meantime ?
we built the pieces so that we could just break them up with enzymes . there are enzymes that repair them and repair them .
and i should mention that i have pancreatic cancer , and that i want you to hurry . &quot;
well , the next day we were in cleveland .
we looked at her , we laughed , we cried , and we knew she had to be in a hospice .
we found one for them , we took them , and we took care of them , and we gave them eight , because it was necessary .
it was something we knew to do .
and just as the woman who wanted to meet me as an adult , she turned me into a box of ashes , and she was put into my hands .
what happened was that the circle had closed , it had become a circle -- and the revelation that i talked about .
the revelation is that death is part of life .
she saved my life , and my partner and i saved her .
and you know , this part of life needs everything that the rest of life needs .
but at the same time , they had a clear knowledge of the forest that was amazing .
and we started making pieces , starting with pieces that had five to seven thousand letters in them , put them together to make 24,000-letter pieces to put them back together , up to 72,000 .
he needs truth and beauty , and i &apos;m so glad that this has been mentioned here so often .
it needs the same -- it needs the dignity , the love and the pleasure . and it &apos;s to us to give these things .
thank you .
imagine a big explosion as you get up to 1,000 meters .
imagine an airplane full of smoke .
imagine a power plant , the claw , clap , claw , clap , clap , clap , clap , clap , clap .
that sounds scary .
well , i had a unique place that day ; i was sitting on 1d .
i was the only one who could talk to the flying companions .
so i looked at them in a moment , and they said , &quot; no problem , we probably got some birds . &quot;
in each step , we produced these pieces in the surplus so we could sequence them , because we tried to create a very robust process , which you &apos;ll see in a minute .
the pilot had already turned the machine , and we weren &apos;t that far away .
you could see manhattan .
two minutes later , three things happened at the same time .
the pilot set up the machine after the hudson river .
that &apos;s not the route usually .
he turns off the drives .
imagine a soundless airplane .
and then he said three words -- the most intuitive words i &apos;ve ever heard .
he says , &quot; ready to open up . &quot;
i didn &apos;t have to talk to the board staff anymore .
we tried to get to the point of automation .
i could see it in their eyes , there was a shy , life was finished .
i want to share with you three things that i &apos;ve learned about myself that day .
i learned that in a moment everything is different .
we have this plan of life , we have these things that we want to do in life , and i thought about all the people i wanted to hand and i didn &apos;t do it , all the fences i wanted to flick , all the experiences i wanted to do and never did .
while i was thinking about it later , i came up with a phrase , which is , &quot; i collect bad wine . &quot;
because when the wine is there and the person is there , i open it up .
i never want to move anything in life .
and that urgency , that goal , really changed my life .
the second thing that i learned that day -- and that was when we missed the george washington bridge , quite a bit about hair -- i thought , man , there &apos;s one thing that i really regret .
i had a good life .
so , this looks like a basketball playoff .
in my own humanity and with my mistakes , i was aspirational to be better in everything i was attacking .
but in my humanity , i also gave my ego space .
and i regretted the time i wasted for meaningless things , with people who mean something .
and i thought about the relationship with my wife , with friends , with people .
and after that , when i was thinking about it , i decided to put negative energy out of my life .
it &apos;s not perfect , but it &apos;s much better .
i have not argued with my wife for two years .
it feels great .
i &apos;m not trying to be right anymore ; i &apos;m deciding to be happy .
the third thing i learned -- and while the internal clock starts , &quot; 15 , 14 , 13 , &quot; is to count down .
when we get to these really big pieces -- with over 100,000 base pairs -- they &apos;re not just going to grow into e. coli . it &apos;s going to exceed all the possibilities of modern molecular biology , and so we turned to other mechanisms .
you see the water coming .
i said , &quot; please fly into the air . &quot;
i don &apos;t want this thing to break into 20 parts , as you know from documentaries .
as we fall down , i had this feeling of dying , man , is not terrifying .
it &apos;s almost as if we &apos;re preparing our lives for it .
but it was very sad .
i didn &apos;t want to go ; i love my life .
and that sadness really formed in a thought , which is that i wish only one thing .
i just wish i could see my kids grow up .
about a month after that , i went to a show of my daughter -- first graders , not a lot of artistic talent ...
we knew about a mechanism called the homologous recombination that biology uses to repair dna that can assemble those pieces .
... not yet .
and i celebrate , i cry like a little kid .
and in the world , everything made sense to me .
i realized at the time , by connecting the dots to each other , that life is just about being a great father .
more than anything , everything else , is my only goal in life to be a good father .
i became a miracle , not to die that day .
i got another gift , which is to look into the future , and come back and live differently .
my call to all of you who fly today is : imagine the same thing happening on your flight -- please not -- but imagine it ; and how would you change ?
what would you do that you push up because you think you &apos;re there forever ?
how would you change your relationships and the negative energy in it ?
here &apos;s an example of this . there &apos;s an organism called deinococcccus radiodurans , which has three million cycles of radiation .
and more than anything else , are you the best parents you can possibly be ?
thank you .
the idea behind the stuxnet computer worm is quite simple .
we don &apos;t want iran to build the bomb .
the most important post there for the development of nuclear weapons is the uranium incentive facility in natance .
the gray boxes that you see here are real-time control systems .
now , if we can compress the systems that control the numbers and the valves , we can actually do a lot of problems with the centrifuge .
these gray boxes don &apos;t run with windows software ; they &apos;re based on a completely different technology .
but if we can get an effective windows virus to come in on a laptop that &apos;s used by a warning engineer to configure this gray box , we &apos;re in the business .
and this is the planning behind stuxnet .
you can see in the upper field that his chromosome just falls apart .
so we start with a windows droplet .
the usage data is transferred into the gray box , damaging the centrifuge and the iranian nuclear energy program is delayed -- a mission .
this is a child &apos;s game , right ?
i want to tell you how we found that out .
when we started our research to stuxnet six months ago , it was completely unknown what the meaning and purpose of this construction was .
the only thing that we knew is very , very complicated in terms of the windows part , the dropper-part , made by the countless cereal abuse of day- .
and it seemed to have something with these gray boxes , these real-time control systems .
so this attracted our attention , and we started a lab project where we infected our environment with stuxnet , and we studied this construct .
and then something weird happened .
stuxnet was like a lab rat that didn &apos;t like our cheese -- sniffed on it , but didn &apos;t want to eat it .
12 to 24 hours later , everything was reunited as it was .
it didn &apos;t make sense in my eyes .
and after experimenting with different kinds of cheese , i realized that this is a targeted attack .
completely targeted for a particular goal .
the dropper is actively crawling around the gray box when a particular configuration was discovered , even when the particular program that &apos;s trying to infect it is going on on this goal .
and if not , stuxnet doesn &apos;t do anything .
so , that really got my interest , and we started working with this , almost around the clock , because i thought , well , we don &apos;t know what the goal is .
it could be , say , a us- american power plant , or a chemical plant in germany .
so we &apos;d better find out what the goal is .
so we extracted and decomposed the attack code and found that it &apos;s embedded in two digital warheads -- a smaller one and a bigger one .
and we also noticed that they were very professionally constructed by people who obviously had insider information .
we have thousands of organisms that can do that .
they knew all the bits and bytes that they had to attack .
they probably knew the size of the machine operator .
so they knew everything .
and if you &apos;ve already heard that the dropper of stuxnet is complex and high-tech , let me tell you , the user data is a science for itself .
it &apos;s much more sophisticated than anything we &apos;ve ever seen .
here &apos;s a clip of this attack code .
we &apos;re talking about -- about 15,000 lines of code .
it looks pretty much like old-fashioned assembler language .
and i want to tell you how we were able to get smart out of this code .
so what we first searched for was system-functioning calls because we know what they &apos;re doing .
their hunters could smell the urine of an animal from 40 steps away , and determine what kind of animal that was .
these organisms can be totally dry , they can even live in the vacuum .
and then we looked for tigers and data structures and tried to connect them to the real world -- with potential goals in the real world .
so we needed theories about these goals that we could demonstrate or disprove .
in order to make these theories , we remind ourselves that it &apos;s definitely high-level sabotage , it has to be a high-value goal , and it &apos;s very likely to be in iran , because that &apos;s where most infections have been reported .
well , in this area , there aren &apos;t several thousand targets .
it basically runs out to the buscheme nuclear power plant and to the incentives in natance .
so i said to my assistant , &quot; bring me a list of all the centrifuge experts and power plants from our client stem . &quot;
and i called them up and tapped their knowledge to compare their expertise to what we found in the code and in the data .
and that worked very well .
so , we were able to connect the little digital warhead to rotor control .
the rotor is this moving part within the centrifuge , this black object that you see .
i &apos;m absolutely sure that life can exist and move in space , looking for aquatic conditions .
and if you manipulate the speed of this rotor , you &apos;re actually able to crack the rotor and eventually even explode the centrifuge .
and what we also found is that the goal of the attack was actually to let it happen slowly and secretly -- obviously in the attempt to have warning engineers , so that they wouldn &apos;t be able to get behind it quickly .
the big digital warhead -- we got a glimpse by looking at very precise data and data structures .
so the number 164 is really sticking out of this code ; you can &apos;t overlook it .
i started working through scientific literature about how these centrifuges are built in natance and found that they &apos;re structured in what we call cascades , and each cascade contains 164 centrifuges .
so that made sense , it fit together .
and it got better .
these centrifuges in iran are divided into 15 so-called levels .
and guess what we found in the code of attack ?
it &apos;s an almost identical structure .
in fact , nasa has shown that there &apos;s a lot of it out there .
so again , that fit really well together .
and this gave us great confidence for what we were studying here .
now , don &apos;t get me wrong , it didn &apos;t just go like that .
these results have been achieved by several weeks of hard work .
and often we just ran into a dead end and we had to recollect ourselves .
anyway , we found that both digital warheads actually headed for the same goal , but from different directions .
the little warhead takes over a cascade , and it turns over the rotors and slows them down , and the big head comes up with six cascades interacting and manipulating valves .
so , by and large , we &apos;re very confident that we &apos;ve actually determined what the goal is .
it &apos;s natance , and it &apos;s just natance .
so we don &apos;t have to worry that other goals could be hit by stuxnet .
here &apos;s a feature shot of the molecule that we made by using these processes -- in fact , we just used hefe-mechanisms with the right design of the pieces , we adjusted them . yeast then automatically adds them together .
here &apos;s something really cool that we &apos;ve discovered -- really pulled me out of the socks .
there &apos;s the gray box down there , and on the top you see the centrifuges .
now , what this thing does is it captures the incoming values of sensors -- so for example , printing sensors and vibration sensors -- and it provides legitimate code that &apos;s still going on during the attack , with false data .
and in fact , this false data from stuxnet is already recorded before .
so it &apos;s just like hollywood movies , where , during the tracking chase , the surveillance system is fed with video before .
that &apos;s cool , isn &apos;t it ?
the idea of this , obviously , is not just to overlists the machine operators in the control room .
in fact , it &apos;s much more dangerous and aggressive .
the idea is to overlift a digital security system .
we need digital security systems where a human machine operator can &apos;t respond fast enough .
this is not an electron microscope , it &apos;s a regular microscope .
so in a power station , for example , when the big steam turbine gets too fast , you have to open up deposit valves within milliseconds .
of course , this can &apos;t be done by a human machine leader .
so this is where we need digital security systems .
and if they &apos;re at risk , bad things can happen .
the power plant can explode .
and neither the machine leaders , nor the security system , will notice it .
that &apos;s frightening .
but it gets worse .
and what i &apos;m saying now is very important .
think about it . this attack is generic .
it &apos;s such a big molecule that we can even see it with the light microscope .
he has nothing to do with centrifuge , with uranization .
so he would work just as well -- in a power station or in a car factory .
it &apos;s generic .
and you don &apos;t have to -- as the attacker -- you don &apos;t have to put the use data on a usb stick , as we saw at stuxnet .
you could also use ordinary worm technology to spread .
you just have to spread it as far as you can .
and when you do that , you end up with a cyber weapon of mass destruction .
this is the consequence that we have to ask ourselves .
so unfortunately , the biggest number of goals for these attacks are not in the middle east .
they &apos;re in the united states , in europe and japan .
this is a six seconds worth of footage .
so all these green areas , these are the most targeted environments .
we have to face the consequences , and we start to prepare for ourselves better .
thank you .
i have a question .
ralph , it was reported a lot about the fact that people suspect that the mossad is the main organization behind it .
is that your opinion ?
okay , you really want to know that ?
yeah . okay .
in my opinion , the mossad is involved , but the driving force is not israel .
so the driving force behind this is cyberpower .
this is the publication that we just recently completed .
there &apos;s only one , and that &apos;s the united states -- fortunately , fortunately .
because otherwise our problem would be even bigger .
thank you for chasing us a fear of heating . thank you ralph .
i &apos;ve spent the last few years putting myself in situations that are normally very difficult and at the same time somehow dangerous .
i went to jail -- hard .
i worked in a coal mining -- dangerous .
i filmed in war zones -- difficult and dangerous .
and i spent 30 days eating nothing but this -- fun at the beginning , a little bit difficult in the middle , very dangerous at the end .
in fact , i &apos;ve been exposed to most of my career , appearing to be in terrible situations , and only for the attempt to look at the social barrier that they are engaging and interesting , and hopefully in a way , understanding what makes them fun and accessible to the audience .
so when i knew that i was going to come here to look at the world of branding and sponsoring in a tedtalk , i knew that i was going to do something a little different .
this is over 580,000 letters in genetic code . it &apos;s the largest molecule that &apos;s ever been created by human beings .
some of you may have heard about the fact that i turned an ad on ebay a couple of weeks ago .
i sent some facebook news , some twitter news , and i gave people the opportunity to get the names of my tedtalk 2011 .
really , some happy people and companies , for-profit and non-profit , got the unique opportunity -- because i &apos;m sure that chris anderson will never let it go again -- to buy the name rights on the talk that you just see , who didn &apos;t have a title or a lot of content , and didn &apos;t have a lot of evidence of what that would be .
so what you got was this : your name here is presented : my tedtalk , which you have no idea what the subject is going to be , and which could eventually fly you around the ears , especially if i had your company dumb for your participation .
but apart from that , it &apos;s a very good medial opportunity .
do you know how many people are watching these tedtalks ?
a lot .
this is just the working title , by the way .
so , despite this warning , i knew that anybody would buy the nament rights .
now , if you had asked me this a year ago , i wouldn &apos;t have been able to tell you this with certainty .
it has a molecular weight of over 300 million .
but in the new project that i &apos;m working on , my new film , we &apos;re studying the world of marketing , of advertising .
as i said , over the years , i went into some pretty horrible situations , but nothing could prepare me , nothing could arrest me to go to anything as difficult and as dangerous as these guys .
you know , i had the idea for a movie .
what i want to do is make a film around product placement , marketing and advertising , where the whole movie is funded by product placement , marketing and advertising .
and the movie will be called &quot; the greatest movie ever sold . &quot;
so what happens in &quot; the greatest movie ever sold , &quot; is that everything from top to bottom , from beginning to end , is completely connected to brands -- from the cover sponsor that you &apos;re going to see in the movie , that &apos;s the brand x .
now this brand , the qualcomm stadium , the staples center ...
these people will be connected to the movie in eternity forever .
and so the film will examine this whole idea -- this is what ? in eternity , forever ?
i &apos;m a redundant person .
in the early &apos; 80s , i got a really amazing task when my harvard professor asked me if i was interested in going to haiti and infiltrating the secret societies that were the foundation of duvalier and tonton macoutes and the poison that was used to make zombies safe .
if we were to print it with a size of 10 and no distances , it would encompass 142 pages just to print this genetic code .
that was more for emphasis .
it was &quot; in eternity , forever . &quot;
but we &apos;re not just going to have the brand x as a cover sponsor , but we &apos;re going to make sure that we &apos;re going to sell every possible category in the movie .
so we might sell a shoe , and it will be the greatest shoe you &apos;ve ever worn ...
the greatest car you &apos;ve ever driven , from &quot; the greatest movie ever sold , &quot; the greatest drink you &apos;ve ever had , a attention from the greatest movie ever sold .
so the idea is , besides showing that brands are part of life , are actually , to get them to fund the film ?
and we actually show the whole process of how it works .
the goal of the whole movie is transparency .
you &apos;re going to see the whole thing going on in the movie of stats .
so this is the whole concept , the whole movie , from beginning to end .
now , how do we start a chromosome ? how do we activate it ?
and i would be happy if ceg was going to help make this happen .
you know , it &apos;s funny , because when i first heard it , it &apos;s the ultimate respect for the audience .
but i don &apos;t know how recipient people are going to be .
do you have a perspective -- i don &apos;t want to use &quot; perspective , &quot; because that has a negative connotation -- but you know how this is going to evolve ?
how much money is needed to realize that ?
1.5 million .
i think it &apos;s going to be hard to meet them , but i think it &apos;s certainly worth addressing some really familiar brands .
who knows when the movie comes out , we might look like a horde vollidiot .
what do you think the answer will be ?
the answer will be extremely likely &quot; no . &quot;
obviously , it &apos;s very simple with a virus . it &apos;s much more complicated to deal with bacteria .
but is it a difficult thing to do because of the movie or a difficult thing to do ?
jk : both .
... so , not so optimistic .
so , sir , can you help me ? i need help .
i can help .
okay .
fantastic .
we have to think about what brands .
yeah .
if you look at the people that you have to do with ...
it &apos;s as simple as you do in eukaryonts as we are : you just take the nucleus out and you put another one in , and that &apos;s exactly what you &apos;ve all heard about the cloning .
there are some places that we can turn to .
put the camera out .
i thought , &quot; put the camera out &quot; would mean that we wanted to have a backup conversation .
it turns out it really meant , &quot; we don &apos;t want to have anything to do with your movie . &quot;
and just like that , all these companies disappeared , one by one .
no one wanted to have something to do with the movie .
i was amazed .
they wanted to have absolutely nothing to do with the project .
and i was confused because i thought the whole concept of advertising was to present your product to as many people as possible , to make it see as many people as possible .
especially in today &apos;s world , in this interface of new and old media and the fragmented media landscape -- it &apos;s not the idea of being in this new exciting medium of delivery that &apos;s going to bring that message .
archaebacteria are integrated into the cell , but we &apos;ve just recently shown that you can do a complete transplant of a chromosome from one cell to the other , and you can activate it .
no , that &apos;s what i thought .
but you see , the problem was that my idea had a fatal mistake , and that was the following .
in fact , no , that wasn &apos;t the mistake at all .
that wouldn &apos;t have been a problem at all .
that would have been okay .
but what this image is for is a problem .
see , if you put transparency in the google search , this is one of the first images that &apos;s coming out .
i really like your kind , sergey brin . now .
that was the problem : transparency -- free of deception and bags , just to discover and look through , immediately understandable , characterized by visibility and access to information , especially in terms of business practices -- the last line is certainly the biggest problem .
you know , we &apos;re hearing a lot about transparency right now .
we cleaned up the chromosome of a microbial species . in general , these two are as far from each other as humans and mice . we gave some extra genes to choose this chromosome . we deployed it with enzymes to destroy all the proteins . and it was very amazing when we put it in a cell -- and they &apos;ll appreciate our very sophisticated graphics here .
our politicians say it , our president says it , even our ceos say it .
but when it comes so far that it should be implemented , something changes .
but why ? well , transparency is frightening -- like this strange bear that still breaks .
it &apos;s unpredictable -- like this strange highway .
and it &apos;s also very risky .
what else is risky ?
a whole bowl of cool whip food .
this is very risky .
so when i started talking to the companies and telling them that we wanted to tell this story , they said , &quot; no , we want you to tell a story .
we want you to tell a story , but we just want you to tell our story . &quot;
the new chromosome went into the cell .
see , when i was a kid and my father caught me lying -- and he &apos;s sitting there looking at me with this view -- he would say , &quot; my son , there are three versions in every story .
there &apos;s your version , there &apos;s my version , and there &apos;s the real version . &quot;
so you see , with this film , we wanted to tell the real version .
but because only one company , an agency , was willing to help us -- and just because i &apos;ve known john bond and richard kirshentree for years -- i realized that i had to do it alone , i had to go right to the middle man and go right to the companies with my team .
so what they started to understand -- or what i started to understand -- was that when you start to talk to these companies , the idea of how your brand is understood is a profound problem .
i have friends who make big , gigantic hollywood movies , and i have friends who make little independent movies like me .
and my friends , who make big , gigantic hollywood movies , say that the reason their films are so successful is because of the brand partners they have .
and then my friends who make little independent movies say , &quot; well , how are we going to compete with these big , gigantic hollywood movies ? &quot;
and the movie is called &quot; the greatest movie ever sold . &quot;
so how exactly are we going to see ban in the movie ?
in fact , we thought that this is the end , but we tried to bring the process a little further .
every time i get on my way , and whenever i open the medical closet , you &apos;ll see ban deodorant .
and every time i interview somebody , i can say , &quot; are you fresh enough for this interview ?
are they there ? they look a little nervous .
i want to help you calm down .
so maybe you should be doing a little bit of this before the interview . &quot;
and then we &apos;re offering one of these great dunes .
either &quot; florn fusion &quot; or &quot; paradise winds , &quot; they &apos;ll have the choice .
we will be equipped for both men and for women -- solid , roll-on , or a stick , whatever .
this is the short term .
now , i can answer all of your questions and give you a full-blown socket .
this is the main mechanism of evolution here .
we &apos;re a smaller brand .
as you &apos;ve talked about the smaller movies , we &apos;re a challenge as a brand .
so we don &apos;t have a budget like other brands .
so doing these things -- you know , people remember ban -- that &apos;s kind of why we &apos;re interested .
in which words would you describe ban ?
ban is blank .
that &apos;s a great question .
superior technology .
technology is not the way to describe something that someone is doing under the axes .
we &apos;re talking about bold , fresh .
we find all kinds of species here that have taken a second chromosome , or a third of any place , a thousand characteristics every single second to a species .
i think , &quot; fresh &quot; is a great word that this category really makes something positive , as opposed to &quot; fighting smell and moisture . &quot;
it keeps you fresh .
how can we keep them fresh longer -- better fresh , more fresh , three times fresh .
these things have a more positive effect .
and this is a million company .
what about me ? what about the printing caps ?
i have to talk to the man on the street , who &apos;s like me , otto normal consumers .
i want you to tell me something about my brand .
how would you describe your brand ?
well , my brand ?
to make sense of this conversation , of course , i had to know something about this remarkable belief of vodoun and voodoo is not a cult of black magic .
so people who think of evolution as a gene that &apos;s changed at a time have missed a lot of biology .
i don &apos;t know .
i really like beautiful clothing .
80s revival hits skaterpunk , except on the wash day .
all right , what is the brand gerry ?
unique .
i think the genre , the style i have , is probably dark glamour .
i like a lot of black colors , a lot of gray sounds and stuff like that .
but usually , i have an accessories , like sunglasses , or a jewelry and stuff like that .
if dan were a brand , he would probably be a classic mercedes cabrio .
the brand that i am , i would say , is a permissible fly .
there are enzymes called restriction enzymes that actually digest dna .
woman 2 : partly hippie , partly yogi , partly brooklyn-girls -- i don &apos;t know .
man 3 : i &apos;m the museum guy .
i sell the shrimp all over the country , globally .
so i think that &apos;s my brand .
this is my brand in my little , distorted industry .
man 4 : my brand is fedex , because i was left .
man 5 : brand failed alcohol addicted writing .
can you do that ?
i &apos;m a lawyer &apos;s brand .
i &apos;m tom .
the chromosome that was in the cell has no one ; the chromosomes that we &apos;ve added .
now , we can &apos;t all be the tom-brand , but i often see myself in the interface of dark glamour and neglect .
and what happened was that i needed an expert .
i needed somebody who could go in my head , somebody who could really help me understand what they call &quot; brand personality . &quot;
and so i found a company called olson zaltman in pittsburg .
they &apos;ve helped companies like nestle , feminine , hallmark , discover this brand personality .
if they could do it for them , they could help me .
they brought their pictures with them , right ?
that &apos;s what i have . the first picture is a picture of my family .
just tell me a little bit about how this is connected to your thoughts and feelings about yourself .
these are the people that shape my view of the world .
it was exposed to the cell and recognized the other chromosome as a foreign material , and so we ended up with just one cell with a new chromosome .
tell me about this world .
md : this world ? i think your own world is the world that you live in -- like people around you , the friends , the family , the way you live your life , the work and so on .
all of these things come and start from a place , and for me , come and start with my family in west virginia .
what &apos;s the next thing you want to talk about .
next . this was the most beautiful day of my life .
what is the relationship to the thoughts and feelings about you ?
it &apos;s the way i want to be .
i like things that are different .
i like things that are weird . i like weird things .
tell me about the &quot; why &quot; phase -- what does it bring us ?
it stained blue because of the genes that we added .
what &apos;s the machete ? what &apos;s the puppetry you &apos;re in right now ?
why is it important to reboot ? what is the red ?
tell me a little bit about that part .
a little bit more about you , not you .
what other metamorphosis did you go through ?
... that doesn &apos;t have to be frightened . what kind of rollercoaster are you in ?
eeeeee ! no , thank you .
thank you very much for your patience .
yeah . all right .
yeah , i don &apos;t know what it &apos;s going to be .
and after a very short period of time , it had lost all the characteristics of species and converted completely into a new species based on the new software that we put into the cell .
there were a lot of crazy things going on .
the first thing i saw was this idea that her brand personality ecti was separating two , but it had complimentary pages -- the morgan spurlock brand is an eighth-play brand .
they &apos;re very good at doing that .
and i think there &apos;s almost a contradiction with it .
and i think some companies will only focus on a strength , rather than both .
a lot of companies tend to -- and this is human nature -- avoid things that they &apos;re not sure about , they &apos;re going to be afraid , these elements , and they &apos;re going to welcome them , and they &apos;re actually turning them into something positive for themselves , and that &apos;s a decent chess .
what other brands are doing ?
the first one is a classic apple .
and you can also see it here , target , wii , mini of mini coopers and jetblue .
well , there are brands and eighth brands , these things that come and go , but a playful brand , eight brand is a pretty strong thing .
all the proteins changed the membranes -- when we read the genetic code , it was exactly what we transferred .
an eighth , playful brand . what &apos;s your brand ?
if somebody asked you to describe your brand identity , your brand personality , what would it be like ?
you have a up attribute ? are you something that brings blood in wounds ?
or are they more like a down attribute ?
are you something a little bit more quiet , reservative , more conservative ?
up-attribute are things that are playful , fresh like the fresh prince , timely , adventurous , outlanded and lovely like erol flynn , agile , professional , magical and mystical like gandalf .
or are they more like a down attribute ?
are they mindful and monument like 007 ?
are they established , traditionally , nurturing , protective , compassionate , like oprah ?
are they reliable , stable , family , safe , native , holy , considerable , like the dalai lama or yoda ?
it may sound like genomic alchimie , but we can , by shifting the software dna , change things quite dramatically .
in the course of the film , we had more than 500 companies that were up and down companies that said no , because they didn &apos;t want to be part of the project .
they didn &apos;t want to have anything to do with this film because they didn &apos;t have control , no control over the finished product .
but it &apos;s found 17 brand partners who were willing to get rid of this control that wanted to do business with somebody as mindful and playful as i did , and who eventually enabled us to tell stories that we couldn &apos;t usually tell -- stories that a advertisement would never have supported .
they enabled us to tell the story of neuromarketing , as we tell the story in this movie , that you &apos;re using mri today to plot the pleasure centers of the brain , both to make advertising and films .
we went to sao paulo , where foreign advertising has been banned .
in the entire city , there &apos;s no display afar for five years , no poster , no flyer , nothing .
and we drove to school districts where companies are going to be in poor schools , all over america .
the incredible thing for me is that the projects that i got most of the feedback , or where i got the greatest success , are the ones that i was directly interacting with things .
and that &apos;s what these brands did .
because they went around the middle man , they went around the agencies , and they said that maybe the agencies don &apos;t really have their interest in mind .
now i &apos;ve argued that this is not the genesis -- that &apos;s based on 3.5 billion years of evolution .
i &apos;m going to negotiate with the artist directly .
i &apos;m going to work with him and create something completely different , something that makes people think that our world is challenging .
and what was that for you ? what was it successful ?
now , since the film had premiere in the sundance film , we can look at this .
according to burrelle , the premiere was in january , and since then -- and this is not even the whole thing -- there were 900 million calls from this film .
it &apos;s actually just two and a half weeks worth of time .
this is just online -- no press , no tv .
the film hasn &apos;t been delivered yet .
it &apos;s not even online . it &apos;s not a streaming .
he hasn &apos;t come out in other countries .
and i &apos;ve argued that we may be able to create a new form of the cambrian explosion in which there might be massive new education based on this digital design .
well , finally , the film got a very big momentum .
and that &apos;s not bad for a project where almost every advertising agency we talked to , recommended their customers to let their fingers .
one of the things that i believe in is that when you take your chance , you take risks , that you have opportunities in those risks .
i think if you keep people out of it , you get them closer to failure .
i think that if you train your employees to avoid risks , you &apos;re preparing the whole company to get a profit .
i feel that we need to encourage people to take risks in progress .
we need to encourage people not to be afraid of the possibilities that they might be scary .
finally , in the progression , we should welcome the fear .
we should put the bear in the cage .
welcome the fear . welcome the risk .
on the contrary , it &apos;s a complex metaphysical worldview .
why should we do that ?
each one of these big spots is full , so we welcome the risk .
and finally , we should welcome transparency .
today , more than ever before , a little bit of honesty brings us very far .
and that said , with honesty and transparency , my whole talk , &quot; welcome transparency , &quot; they were presented by my good friends of emc who paid 7100 dollars for the namebay rights .
big data is turned into big opportunities for organizations around the world .
emc presents &quot; welcome transparency . &quot;
thank you .
now , morgan , in the name of transparency , this : what happened to the $ 7100 ?
that &apos;s a great question .
i put a check in my pocket , put it on the top of the ted organization , the sapling foundation -- a check at 7100 to fund my ted performance next year .
i think it &apos;s pretty obvious in terms of what we need .
my name is amit .
18 months ago , i did something else at google , and i proposed to do something with museums and art , and my boss , who is today , gave me a green light .
and it took 18 months .
a lot of fun negotiations and stories , i can tell you , with 17 very interesting museums from nine countries .
but i &apos;m going to focus on the performance .
there are a lot of stories about why we did this .
i think my personal view is very simple with this slide and your access .
i grew up in india .
i became a great education -- i don &apos;t complain -- but i didn &apos;t have too many museums and these works of art .
so when i went and visited these museums , i started to learn a lot .
we &apos;ve grown from six and a half to nine billion people in the next 40 years .
and while i was working for google , i was trying to make this yearning -- art more accessible -- with technology .
we then created a team , a great team , and we started here .
i &apos;m going to start with the demonstration , and tell you some interesting things that happened since the launch .
so you just go to google project.com .
you can look around in all these museums here .
there &apos;s uffizi , the moma , the herage , the rijks , the van gogh .
i even come to one of my favorite , the metropolitan museum of art in new york .
you get in two ways -- very simple .
click , and wumms , you &apos;re in this museum .
it doesn &apos;t matter where you are -- bombay , mexico , it doesn &apos;t matter .
to put it in my context , i was born in 1946 .
you go around and you amuse yourself .
you want to orient in the museum ?
open the map , and jump with a click .
they &apos;re in there , they want to go to the end of the gang .
just keep it . a lot of fun .
put it up .
thank you , but the best one comes .
so now i &apos;m in front of one of my favorite paintings , beef workers from pieter breugel in the met .
i see this plushing sign .
when the museum gave us the picture , they click on it .
today , three people on this planet are going to be for everyone in 1946 ; within 40 years , it &apos;s going to be four .
now this is one of the images .
this is all metadata .
those of you who are really interested in art can click here -- but i click it away now .
this is one of the images that we &apos;ve captured with the so-called gigapix technology .
this picture , for example , has about 10 billion points of image , i think .
and a lot of people ask me , &quot; what do you get for 10 billion points of image ? &quot;
this is what i &apos;m going to show you now .
you can zoom in and out very easily .
you see something fun here .
i love this guy ; his expression is unaffordable .
we have problems with food , with fresh and clean water , medicine , fuel for 6.5 billion people .
but then they really want to go deep .
and so i started playing around , and i realized that something was going on there .
and i thought , &quot; wait a minute , that sounds interesting . &quot;
i went up close to it , and i slowly noticed that these kids actually beat something .
i did a little research , talked to some famous ones at the met , and actually found out that it &apos;s a game called squail , where a gans is beaten with a stick on tuesday on tuesday .
it was , apparently , quite popular .
i don &apos;t know why they did it , but i learned something about it .
to get really close , you can go to the cracks .
just to give you the overview , i zoom out to see what you get .
here we were , and this is the painting .
it &apos;s going to be a challenge to offer that for nine .
the best one , though , comes in a second .
let &apos;s jump quickly to moma , again , in new york .
another favorite picture of me , star night .
the previous example was to find detail .
but what if you want to see the paintbrushes ?
and what if you want to see van gogh creating this masterpiece ?
you zoomed in . you can actually go in .
i &apos;m going to zoom in on one of my favorite parts of this image , until i &apos;m really in the cracks .
this is star night , probably never seen that way before .
now i &apos;m going to show you my favorite function .
we need over five billion tons of coal , 30-plus billion barrels of oil . that &apos;s a hundred million barrels a day .
there are many more , but i don &apos;t have time .
that &apos;s the really cool part , it &apos;s called collections .
each of you , every one of you -- whether rich or poor , whether you have a great house -- doesn &apos;t matter .
you can go and create your own museum online -- from all these images , you can put your own collection on .
simple , you go in -- and i &apos;ve created this , it &apos;s called the power of the zoom -- you can zoom around .
this is the ones that are sent , in the national alignment .
you can put it all together with remarks , send your friends , and start a conversation about what you feel when you look at these masterpieces .
i think , in closing , the main thing for me is that all the wonderful things that are not coming from google .
they don &apos;t even come from the museums , i think .
maybe i shouldn &apos;t say that .
when we think about biological processes , or any process to replace that , it becomes a huge challenge .
they come from the artists .
and that was an experience of humility for me .
i mean , i hope we &apos;ll be talking to this digital medium of art , and represent it online properly .
and the biggest question that i &apos;m asked recently is , &quot; did you do this to replicate the experience of a museum visitor ? &quot;
the answer to that is no .
it &apos;s to fill the experience .
that &apos;s what it &apos;s about . thank you .
thank you .
this is a representation of your brain . your brain can be divided into two seats .
this is the left half , which is the logical side , and then the right half , which is the intuitive side .
then , of course , there &apos;s all the co2 from this material that ends up in the atmosphere .
if we had a scale to measure the aptitute of every hemisphere , we could represent your brain .
for example , this would be somebody who is completely logical .
this would be somebody who is completely intuitive .
now , where would you position your brain on this scale ?
some of us may have chosen for one of these extremes , but i think that for most people in the audience , their brain looks something like this -- with a high aptitute , which is at the same time in both hemisphere .
it &apos;s not like they &apos;re both exclusive or something like that .
you can be logical and intuitive .
and so i think of myself as one of the people , along with most of the other experimental quantum physicists , who need a good proportion of logic to put together the complex ideas .
but at the same time , we need a good proportion of intuition to actually do the experiments .
how do we develop this intuition ? well , we love to play with things .
it &apos;s interesting .
we now have , from our discoveries from all over the world , a database of about 20 million genes , and i want to believe that these are the design components of the future .
so we go out and play with it , and then we look at how it responds , and then we start to develop our intuition .
basically they do the same thing .
so one of the intuitions that they &apos;ve developed over the years is probably that a thing can only be in one place at the same time .
i mean , it can sound strange to think that one thing at the same time is in two different places , but they were not born with this idea , they developed it .
i remember seeing a child playing on a ground threshold .
he was a little kid , and he wasn &apos;t very good at it all the time .
but i bet that playing with the ground threshold taught him a very valuable lesson , which is that the big things don &apos;t leave you alone , and that they stay in one place .
and this is a great conceptual model of the world , as long as they &apos;re not a particle physicist .
it would be a terrible model for a particle physicist because they don &apos;t play with soil , but they play with these little strange particles .
and when you play with your particles , you find all kinds of weird things -- like you fly directly through walls , or you can be in two different places at the same time .
the electronics industry had a dozen components , and look at the diversity that came out of it .
and so they wrote down all these observations , and they called the theory of quantum mechanics .
that was the state of physics a few years ago ; it took quantum mechanics to describe the little , tiny particles .
but it didn &apos;t take them to describe the great everyday objects around us .
that didn &apos;t like my intuition , and maybe just because i don &apos;t play with particles so often .
well , i play with them sometimes , but not very often .
and i &apos;ve never seen them .
i mean , nobody has ever seen a particle .
but my logical side didn &apos;t like it either .
because if all things are made of particles and all these particles follow the rules of quantum mechanics , shouldn &apos;t it just follow the rules of quantum mechanics ?
i don &apos;t see a reason why it shouldn &apos;t be that way .
we &apos;re actually hitting the very limits of biological reality and the very limits of our imagination .
so i would feel strongly better with the whole thing if we could somehow show that everyday objects also follow the rules of quantum mechanics .
so , a few years ago , i went to do that .
i created one .
this is the first object you can see that was in the quantum mechanical superposition .
so what we &apos;re looking at here is a tiny computer chip .
and you can see this green dot there in the middle .
this is the piece of metal that i &apos;m going to talk about in a moment .
this is a picture of the object .
here i &apos;m going to expand it . we &apos;re going to look right here .
and here &apos;s a really big close-up of this little piece of metal .
we have technologies today because of these fast synthesizers to do what we call combinatorial genetics .
so what we &apos;re looking at is a little piece of metal that &apos;s shaped like a springboard , and it &apos;s over the edge .
so i made this thing in a similar way that you make a computer chip .
i went to a clean room with new siliconic slices , and for 100 hours , i was racking on all the big devices .
for the last bit , i had to build my own machine -- to get this kind of swimming pool , shaped hole and this thing .
this thing has the ability to be in the quantum mechanical superposition , but it takes a little bit of help to do it .
look , let me give you an analogy .
you know how uncomfortable it is to be in a full elevator ?
i mean , when i &apos;m alone in the elevator , i do all kinds of weird things , but then other people go up , and i stop doing all these things , because i don &apos;t want to harm them with it , or frankly , it disappears .
so quantum mechanics says that intractable objects feel the same .
the co-drivers for intractable objects are not just humans , but also the light that shines on them and the wind that goes past them and the heat of space .
we now have the ability to build a large robot that can make millions of chromosomes a day .
and so we knew that if we wanted to see that piece of metal acts quantum mechanically , we had to kick out all the passengers .
and then we did that .
we turned the light off , we put it in a vacuum , and we sucked all the air out , and we cooled it up till almost to now , all alone in the elevator , the piece of metal was free to behave as much as it wanted .
so we measured his movement .
we found that it &apos;s really strange .
instead of just lying there , it vibrated . the way it vibrated was kind of like this -- like a stretching and coherent bubble .
in which we gave him a little push , we could vibrate it at the same time and not vibrate it -- something that &apos;s only allowed in quantum mechanics .
so what i &apos;m going to tell you about is what &apos;s truly fantastic .
what does it mean to vibrate for an object at the same time and not vibrate ?
let &apos;s think about the atoms .
if you can imagine making these 20 million different genes or optimizing these processes to make octan or drugs , we can change new vaccines with a small team of more molecular biology than the last 20 years of science .
so the first case : all the trillions of atoms that make up the piece of metal are still there , and at the same time the same atoms are moving up and down .
just to precise times , they agree .
for the rest of the time , they &apos;re delocalized .
that means that every atom at the same time is in two different places , which is at the same time that the entire piece of metal is in two different places .
i think that &apos;s really cool .
really .
that was worth closing in the clean space for all this year , because , you know , check this , the mass-scale difference between a single atom and that piece of metal is about the same as the difference between the piece of metal and you .
so if a single atom can be at the same time in two different places , this piece of metal can be in two different places , why not it ?
i mean , that &apos;s just what my logical side says .
so , imagine if you were at the same time in multiple places , how would that feel ?
and it &apos;s just simple selection . we can selecte for life ability , production of chemicals or fuel production and so on .
how would your consciousness deal with the fact that your body is delocalized in space ?
there &apos;s another aspect of the story .
when we warmed it up , turned on the light and looked in the box , we saw that the piece of metal was always there in a piece .
and so i had to develop this new intuition that it looks like all the objects in the elevator are really just quantum objects that are made together in a small space .
you hear a lot of talk about how quantum mechanics says that everything is connected to everything .
well , it &apos;s not quite right .
there &apos;s more to it , it &apos;s even deeper .
it &apos;s that these connections , their connections with all the things around them , literally define who they are , and that &apos;s the deep and strange of quantum mechanics .
thank you .
in 2007 , i decided that we should reconceptualize how we think about economic development .
this is a shot of actual design software that we &apos;re working on , that you actually sit down with and design new species on the computer .
it should be our goal that when families think about where they live and want to work , they give them the opportunity to choose between at least one hand of different cities that are all competing for new residents .
at the moment , we &apos;re far away from this goal .
there are billions of people in developing countries who don &apos;t even have a single city that would welcome them .
but the amazing thing about cities is that they &apos;re so much more valuable than it costs to build them .
so we could actually make the world very simple with dutches , maybe even hundreds of new cities .
now this may sound absurd to you , as far as you &apos;ve never thought about new cities .
you know , just swap out the building of apartments against the cities .
imagine that half of the people who want to live in apartments did that , but the other half don &apos;t yet .
you could try to expand the capacity of the existing apartments .
but you know what you would be reluctant to in these apartments and their surroundings to avoid complaints and distract from degradation .
you know , we don &apos;t necessarily know what it &apos;s going to look like . we know exactly what the genetic code is going to look like .
so it turns out to be very hard to get into all these extensions .
but you could go to a whole new place , build a whole new block of apartments , provided that the laws were going to support that kind of building and not prevent it .
so i proposed that governments are creating new areas that are providing enough space for a city and giving them a name : charter cities .
i later found out that , about the same time , jafour and octavio were thinking about the challenge of reform in honduras .
they knew that every year , about 75,000 hondurans left their country to go out to the united states , and they wanted to know what they could do to make sure that these people could stay in their country and do exactly the same thing in honduras .
at this point , jafour said to octavio , &quot; what happens when we take an unpopulated surface of our country -- what if we just give it a message -- some of the american embassy , some of the canadian messages -- and then , if people want to go to work under the canadian rules or the united states , can you work there , and can do anything on the surface of these messages that they usually have to go to canada or america ? &quot;
in the summer of 2009 , honduras suffered a major comprehension crisis .
in the next planning elections , pepe lobo won in a turnaround , whose program promised both innovations and simplification .
he asked octavio to become his stable .
in the meantime , i was preparing for a talk at tedglobal .
we &apos;re now focusing on fuels of the fourth generation .
by improving , trial and investigating consumers , i &apos;ve tried to reduce this complicated concept of charter city to the essential elements .
the first point , is the importance of laws , laws that determine that you cannot disturb existing housing owners .
we pay attention to new technologies , but for the progress , it needs technologies and laws , and it &apos;s usually laws that keep us back .
in the fall of 2010 , a friend from guatemala octavio sent the link to the tedtalk .
again , he showed him jafour .
they called me .
and said , &quot; let &apos;s present this to the chairman of our country . &quot;
so we met in december in the meeting room of a hotel in miami .
i &apos;ve tried to make sense of how valuable cities are , how much more valuable they are than they are .
and i used this graph to show how valuable rohland is in a place like new york , and remember that in some cases , a surface is worth thousands of dollars per square meter .
we have to deal with the inexorable separation of death , and so it shouldn &apos;t surprise us that we all have singing , dancing and art .
if i asked you to count the great world religions , what would you say ?
you &apos;ve seen corn to ethanol recently , which is just a bad experiment .
but it was a pretty abstract discussion at a point when there was a break , octavio said , &quot; paul , maybe we could look at the tedtalk . &quot;
so the tedtalk , in a very simple form , was that a charter city is a place whose beginning is uninhabited land , a founding contract that determines the laws that are there and offers people the opportunity to decide to either live under those rules or not .
that &apos;s why i was asked by the president of honduras , who said that we have to do this project , that it &apos;s important , and that this is the way to move our country forward .
i was asked to come to tegucigalpa and give a talk again on the fourth and fifth of january .
so , i gave one more thing with facts filled , which included a graph like this , which tries to illustrate that if you want to create a lot of value in a city , it has to be a very large city .
this is a picture of denver city , and the sketch is the new airport that was built in denver .
just this airport has a 100 square kilometers .
so i tried to convince the hondurans that if you want to build a new city , you have to start with an area of at least 1,000 square kilometers .
that &apos;s more than 250 thousand acres .
they &apos;re all politely applauding .
we have fuels of the second and third generation that will come out pretty soon that will have much higher sugarcanes , like octan or different kinds of butanol .
the audience &apos;s faces were very serious and alert .
the director of congress came on the stage and said , &quot; professor romer , thank you very much for your talk , but maybe we could look at the tedtalk .
i &apos;ve got it on my laptop here . &quot;
so i sat down , and they played the tedtalk .
and i &apos;ve come to the core point that a new city offers new opportunities to people .
there would be the opportunity to live in a city that would be in honduras , rather than hundreds of miles away in the north .
and a new city also includes new possibilities for leaders .
the government leaders in honduras would depend on the help of partnership countries , they could benefit from their partnerships countries , who would support them in providing the laws for this charter and the performance that everyone can trust , that the charter is really implemented .
and the realization of president lobo , was that the certainty of the translation that i &apos;ve been thinking about as a way to bring the foreign investors to come and build this city could be equal to all the parties in honduras that have been suffering from fear and mistrust for many years .
we went to an area .
but , as we think , the only way that biology is going to have a huge impact on the cost of food , or the limitation of its availability , is when we see co2 as a source material , and therefore we work on cells that go this way .
this picture is from this place .
it &apos;s a thousand square miles .
and just after that , on january 19th , they voted in congress to change the constitution to have a constitutional regime that is reliable for special development areas .
in a country that has just been through a huge crisis , congress was elected for this change in constitution with 124 to a voice .
all parties , all the factions of society , supported this .
but to be part of the constitution , it has to be approved twice by congress .
on february 17th , it was approved with 114 to a voice for the second time .
immediately after that election , between the 21st and the 24th of february , a delegation of about 30 dog users went to the two places in the world that were most interested in going into the business of urban building .
one place is south korea .
this is a picture of a big , new city center that was built in south korea -- big than the city center of boston .
and we think that we &apos;re going to be the first with fuels of the fourth generation , and that &apos;s about 18 months from now .
all you can see in this picture was built within four years after it took four years to get the permission .
the other place that was very interested in building cities is singapore .
it &apos;s already been built in china , and the third one is in preparation .
so if you think about it virtually , it &apos;s where we are today .
they already have a building site , and they &apos;re already mentioning this area for the second city .
it &apos;s already working on a legal system that managers are allowed to participate , and it &apos;s also working on an external legal system .
a country has already offered its supreme court to provide as a dish for the default appeal of the court system there .
urban designers and farmers are very interested .
they even bring in funding .
one thing that , as you already know , has been enlightened , there &apos;s a lot of rents .
sunlight and co2 are a method .
there are a lot of businesses that would like to engage in america , especially in a place with a free trade zone , and there are a lot of people who would like to live there .
all over the world , there are 700 million people who say they want to live in a different place .
a million people leave latin america every year and migrate to the united states .
many of them are fathers who are forced to leave their families to look for work -- sometimes they &apos;re single mothers who have to make enough money to be able to afford food and clothes .
unfortunately , sometimes even children who are trying to find their parents again , who , in some cases , have not seen them for a decade .
so what is it for an idea to think about it in honduras to build a whole new city ?
or even building ducts of these cities , or even spreading hundreds around the world ?
so what is it for an idea to insist on each family having a choice between multiple cities competing for new residents ?
this is an idea worth spreading .
my friends from honduras asked me to say , thank you ted .
but in our discovery of the world , we have all sorts of different ways .
you know , how many decisions do you make on a typical day ?
do you know how many decisions do you make in a typical week ?
i &apos;ve done a survey recently with over 2,000 americans , and the average number of decisions that are , according to , a typical american is 70 on a day .
in addition , a recent study was done with ceos , where they were watching ceos for a week .
and these scientists have just documented the different topics that these ceo has been doing , and how much time they spent making decisions that relate to the topics .
and they found that an average ceo is dealing with 139 tasks a week .
each of these topics , of course , was made of many , many smaller decisions .
50 percent of their decisions were made in nine minutes or less .
only for about 12 percent of their decisions did they take an hour or more of their time .
think about your own decisions .
this is an organism that we described in 1996 .
do you know how many decisions do you make in the nine minutes of category against those in the one hour of category ?
how good do you think you are at making the decisions ?
today , i want to talk about one of the biggest decision-making problems of our modern time , the decision-making problem .
i want to talk about the problem and some possible solutions .
now , when i talk about this problem , i &apos;m going to ask you some questions , and i want to know your answers .
if i ask you a question , raise your hand because i &apos;m blind , only if you want to burn some calories .
otherwise , i ask you , if i ask you a question , and your answer is yes , so my first question for today is , are you ready to hear about the overlap of decision-making problem ?
thank you .
when i was a graduate student at stanford , i went to this very exclusive grocery store , at least at the time , he was really exclusive .
it was a store called draeger &apos;s .
he lives in the deep sea , about a mile and a half deep , at almost boiling water temperatures .
this business , it was almost like a pleasure park .
they had 250 different kinds of mustard and essional and over 500 different kinds of fruits and vegetables and more than two dozen different kinds of water -- and that was at a time when we actually drank water .
i loved to go to this business , but at one point i was wondering , well , how come you never buy anything ?
here &apos;s the olive oil going .
they had over 75 different kinds of olive oil , including those who were locked in boxes that came from a thousand years old olive trees .
so one day , i decided to visit the branch , and i asked the ladder , &quot; does this model work for people to really provide all these possibilities ? &quot;
and he pointed out the bus charges of tourists who came every day and used to have their cameras .
we decided to do an experiment , and we chose marmelade for our experiment .
here &apos;s her martian gang .
they had 348 different kinds of marmelade .
it converts co2 into methane , using hydrogen as an energy source .
we &apos;ve put a little cookie ceiling right at the entrance of the business .
we put six different flavors of marmelade there , or 24 different flavors of marmelade , and we looked at two things : one , i mean , what would more people stand and try marmelade ?
there are more people left when it was 24 , about 60 percent , than when it was six , about 40 percent .
and after that , we looked at the case that people were buying a glass of marmelade .
now we saw the reverse effect .
the people who were standing up when it was 24 , only three percent actually bought a glass of martian .
of the people who were standing when it was six , well , now we saw that 30 percent of them actually bought a glass of marmelade .
now , if you do the math , people bought six times more of a glass of martian who you had six choices than if you had 24 choices .
now , deciding not to buy a glass of martian is probably good for us -- at least it &apos;s good for our waistline -- but it turns out that the decision-making problem also affects us in very consequence decisions .
we don &apos;t choose to decide , even though it &apos;s against our best interests .
we &apos;re looking at whether we can use stored co2 , which could just be brought to production plans , convert co2 into fuel to drive this process .
so , the theme of the day : saving money .
i &apos;m going to describe to you a study that i did with gur huberman , emir kamenica , wei jang , where we looked at the decisions to save for the retirement of almost a million americans from about 650 plans in the entire united states .
and what we looked at was whether the number of subscribers that were possible for a retirement plan , the 401 plan , that affects the probability of more being saved for tomorrow .
and we found that there was actually a relationship .
so in these plans , we had about 657 plans that allowed people to do anything between two and 59 different fonds .
and what we found was that the more fonds were offered , that , in fact , the smaller the participation was .
now , if you look at the extremes , the plans that offered two fund , they had a partial attribute in the &apos; 70s -- still not as high as we want .
in the plans that offered almost 60 fonds , the submersible now dropped to about the sixth percent .
now it turns out that even if you decide to participate , if there were more options for choice , even then it has negative consequences .
so the people who decided to participate tend to be more likely to have more options available to them , the more they rented it to actimize and fund .
christianity , islam , buddhism , judaism , whatever .
within a short period of time , we think we could be able to solve one of the fundamental questions of life .
the more options they had , the more they put all their money into pure money market accounts .
none of these extreme decisions , among the decisions that someone would recommend from people , if our future financial well-being is important to us .
now , in the last 10 years , we &apos;ve seen three essential negative consequences in people that are providing more and more choices .
they &apos;re pushing the decision -- they &apos;re pushing on , even when it comes to their own best interest .
they make more bad decisions -- worse financial and worse medical decisions .
they &apos;re more likely to decide for things that they make themselves less happy , even if they make it objective better .
the main reason for this is that maybe we enjoy these huge shelves of mayonaise , mustard , essional and marmelade , but we can &apos;t actually draw the comparisons and the boundaries and then actually choose something from the fantastic offer .
so what i want to suggest to you today is four simple techniques -- techniques that we &apos;ve tested in different ways and different research places -- that you can just apply in your business .
first of all , limited .
you &apos;ve heard it before , but it &apos;s never been more true than today , that less is .
you know , we really have -- moderate goals like replacing the entire petrochemical industry . right . if you couldn &apos;t do that at ted , where else ? to become a source of energy .
people are always worried when i say , &quot; limited . &quot;
they &apos;re always worried that they &apos;re losing regalals .
but in fact , we &apos;re seeing it more and more , that if you &apos;re willing to limit , and the unimportant equal possibilities are going to get rid of , well , there &apos;s a increase in sales , it &apos;s going to reduce the cost , &amp; amp ; ; ; ; there &apos;s a improvement in decision-making .
when proctor and gamble reduced the different head and shoulders of the species from 26 to 15 , they experienced a 10 percent increase in sales .
when the golden cat corporation got rid of their 10 worst selling cats , they were experiencing that the profits were going up by 87 percent -- a result of both , the increase in sales and the reduction in cost .
you know , the average supermacrt today offers you 45,000 products .
a typical walmart now offers you 100,000 products .
but the ninth largest supermarket , which today is aldi &apos;s ninth largest supermarket , and they only offer them 1,400 products -- a kind of tomato sauce in doses .
now in the world of savings , i think one of the best examples that has recently come to the market is how best you can mandate choice , was something that david laibson has very much coined with , it &apos;s a program that &apos;s offered at harvard .
now , every single harvard is automatically participating in a lifetime fund .
but the same thing we &apos;re working on right now is using the same approaches to developing vaccines .
those who really want to make a choice will be offered 20 fund , not 300 or more fund .
you know , as people often say , &quot; i don &apos;t know how to confine it .
it &apos;s all important opportunities . &quot;
and the first thing i ask the question is , &quot; tell me how the possibilities are different from each other .
and if your employees can &apos;t keep them apart , your customers can &apos;t either . &quot;
well , before we started lunch today , i had a conversation with gary .
and gary said that he would be willing to offer all the people in this audience an all-inclusive vacation to the most beautiful street in the world .
here &apos;s a description of the street .
and i want to read them to you .
and now i &apos;m going to give you a few seconds to read them , and then i &apos;m going to ask you to clap when you &apos;re willing to take on gary &apos;s offer .
you saw it this year with the flu , we &apos;re always in the back of it for a year , and we have a dollar too little when it comes to the right vaccine .
okay . everyone who &apos;s willing to take on gary &apos;s offer .
are they all ?
well , let me show you a little bit more of it .
you know , it was a trick , right ?
now , who &apos;s ready for this journey .
i think i may have heard more hands .
all right .
the fact is that you saw objectively , the first time you had more information than the second time , but i would dare to guess that the second time you felt it was more real .
because the images made it feel more real for them .
which brings me to the second technology that helps them deal with the problem of decision-making overlap , which is concretization .
i think this can be changed by making recombined vaccines in advance .
it &apos;s about people , in order to understand the difference between possibilities , have to understand what the consequences are associated with the individual possibilities , and that these consequences are vivid and concrete .
why do people spend , on average , 15 to 30 percent more when they use a map of e.u. or a credit card than they do on bargain ?
because it doesn &apos;t really feel the money .
and it turns out that if you can make something feel concrete , it &apos;s a very good tool for getting people to save more .
so in a study that i did with shlomo benartzi and alessandro shift , we did a study with people at ing -- employees who all worked for ing -- and these people were all in a gathering where they signed up their participation in their retirement plan .
and during this gathering , we &apos;ve left this gathering just as much as it has always been , we &apos;ve added a little bit of a thing .
the little thing we added to it was that we asked people to just think of all the positive things that would happen in their lives if they were saving money .
in which we did this simple thing , there was a rise in participation by 20 percent , and there was a rise in the number of people who were willing to save or pay a rise by four percent when they were willing to pay for the savings account .
third technology : categorization .
we can do better with more categories than with more choices .
that &apos;s what the future might look like with changes , can today accelerate the evolutionary tree with synthetic bacteria , archaeas , and perhaps eukaryontes .
for example , here &apos;s a study that we did in a magazine course .
it turns out that in the throwaway supermarkets up and down in the northeast area , it varies the number between 31 different types of magazines up to 664 magazines .
but you know what ?
if i show you 600 magazines and i divide them into 10 categories , or i show you 400 magazines , and i split them into 20 categories , you think i gave you more choice and better choice experience than i would have given you the 400 if i had given you the 600 .
because the categories tell me how to keep them apart .
here are two different jewelry facilities .
one is called &quot; jazz , &quot; and the other is called &quot; swing . &quot;
if you think the left ad is swing and the display on the right is jazz , you clap your hands .
okay , there are a few .
if you think that the one on the left is jazz and the one on the right is swing , please clap .
we are light years away from making people better , and our goal is that we have a chance to survive long enough to do that . thank you .
okay , a few more .
well , it turns out they &apos;re right .
the one on the left is jazz , and the one on the right is swing , but you know what ?
this is a highly unuseful category .
the categories have to say something to the voter , not to make the choice .
and you often see this problem when you look at the long lists of all these fund .
who do you really want to inform with ?
my fourth technology : conditions for complexity .
it turns out that we can actually deal with more information than we think we just have to simplify it .
we need to increase complexity slowly .
at the last ted conference , i gave an introduction to the lhc .
i &apos;m going to show you an example of what i mean .
let &apos;s take a very , very complicated decision : the purchase of a car .
here &apos;s a german car maker who gives you the opportunity to completely self-assemble your car .
you have to make 62 different decisions to completely design your car .
now , these decisions are different in the number of choices that they provide per decision .
car color , outcolor of the car -- i have 56 options .
motors , gears -- four possibilities .
now what i do is i change the order in which the decisions appear .
half the clients go from the many possibilities , 56 autocolors to the low possibilities , four gears .
the other half of the clients go from the low possibilities , the four gears , to the 56 autocolors , the many possibilities .
and i promised to come back to explain to you how the machine works .
what do i look at ?
how interested they are .
if you use the standard choice all the time in the decision , that means you &apos;re overwhelmed , the hottest , i &apos;m losing you .
what they find is that the people who go from the many to the low choice dough are going on and on and on , choose the standard choice .
we lose them .
go from the little choice to the many , then stay there .
it &apos;s the same information . it &apos;s the same number of possibilities .
the only thing i &apos;ve done is i &apos;ve changed the order in which this information is presented .
when i start with the simple start , i learn how to choose .
even though the gear selects , it doesn &apos;t tell me anything about my preferences at the interior , it still prepare me for selecting .
so here it is . and for those of you who weren &apos;t there then , the lhc is the largest scientific experiment ever attempted -- 27 miles in diameter .
it also excites me about the big product that i put together , and so i &apos;m willing to be motivated to be interested in it .
let me summarize .
i &apos;ve told you about four techniques that mimic the problem of decision-making overlap -- limited -- get rid of the overfluid alternatives ; concretize -- make it real ; categorize -- we can handle more categories , less possibilities ; prepare for complexity .
each of these techniques that i describe to you today is meant to help you manage the opportunities -- well for you , you can use them for yourself , good for the people that you provide service .
because i think the key to the best possible choice is that you &apos;re selective .
and the more we are selective , the better we will be able to practice the art of choice .
thank you .
hi . i &apos;m kevin allocca , trends-managers at youtube . i look at youtube videos .
that &apos;s true .
today , we want to talk about how videos get viral , and then we want to talk about why this is really important .
a continent is always left out because the assumption was that in sub-saharan africa , there was no religious faith , of course , one , and voodoo is simply the remaining of this very profound religious thought that came over during the tragic diaspora of slavery .
his job is to create the conditions that existed less than a billionth of a second after the universe began -- and up to 600 million times in a second .
we all want to be stars -- celebrities , singers , comedians -- when i was young , it seemed so infinitely difficult .
but web videos have allowed us to all or all of our creative activities to be terribly famous in a part of the culture of the world .
every single one of you could be famous on the internet to the next saturday .
but on youtube , more than 48 hours of video is uploaded every minute .
again , just a tiny percentage ever gets viral and is looked at thousands of times and so at the cultural moment .
so how does this work ?
three things : tastemaker , participation communities and the unexpected .
well , we want to do that .
oh my god . oh my god .
oh my god !
it &apos;s just breathtaking ambition .
whoa !
ohhhhhh , wowww !
last year , bear vasquez sent this video that he had shot in front of his house in the yosemite national park .
in 2010 , it had been looked at 23 million times .
this graph shows what it looked like when the video was first popular last summer .
in fact , bear didn &apos;t want to make a viral video .
he just wanted to share a rainbow .
because you do that when you &apos;re called yosemite mountain bear .
he had uploaded a lot of natural videos .
and this video had actually been sent in january .
this is the machine underneath geneva .
what happened here ?
there was jimmy kimmel .
jimmy kimmel sent the tweet who ended up making the video so popular .
because tastemaker like jimmy kimmy kimmel introduces us to new and interesting things and show a big audience .
it &apos;s friday , friday . gotta get down on friday . everybody &apos;s looking forward to the weekend , weekend . friday , friday . gettin &apos; down on friday . you wouldn &apos;t have thought we would have this conversation without talking about this video , i hope .
rebecca blacks is one of the most popular videos of the year .
it &apos;s been looked at almost 200 million times this year .
this is what the chart looked like .
just like the double rainbow , it seems to have come out of nowhere .
what happened that day ?
we &apos;re taking pictures of this mini-big bang in detectors .
well , it was friday , that &apos;s true .
if you want to know , these other spikes are also fridays .
but what about that day , that particular friday ?
well , tosh.0 gave up , a lot of blogs started writing about it .
michael j. nelson of mystery science theater was one of the first to make a joke about it .
what &apos;s important is that a single person or group of tastemakers took a standpoint , shared a big audience , and accelerated the process .
and then this community of people who shared this big insider joke , and they started talking about it and playing with it .
now there are 10,000 parodies of friday on youtube .
in the first seven days , there was a parody for every single week .
unlike the one-page entertainment of the 20th century , the participation of the community is our way to become part of this phenomenon -- either by spreading it or making it something new .
this is what i work on . it &apos;s called atlas detector -- 44 meters wide , 22 meters in diameter .
nyan cat is animation and music in endless loop .
that &apos;s it , quite simply .
this year , it &apos;s been looked at almost 50 million times .
and if you think that &apos;s crazy , you should know that there &apos;s a three-hour version of that that that &apos;s been looked at four million times .
even cats are looking at this video .
cats look at cats looking at this video .
what &apos;s important is the creativity that is in the internet culture of techie and geeks .
there were remixes .
somebody made an old-fashioned version of it .
and then it became international .
here &apos;s a spectacular image of the atlas in the construction so you can see the scale .
a whole remix community shot out of the ground that made it from a stupid joke to something that we can all participate in .
today , we don &apos;t just find pleasure in something , we do .
who could have looked at all this ?
who could have predicted double rainbow or rebecca black or nyan cat ?
what scripts would you have been able to write in which this is pressing ?
in a world where two days of video is uploaded , only really unique and unexpected outcomes like the videos that i mentioned .
i admit , i wasn &apos;t particularly interested in this when a friend told me to watch this great video , about a guy protesting in new york for traffic tickets for bicycles .
i got a ticket because i didn &apos;t go on the bike path , but often there are disabilities that don &apos;t make you drive on the bike path .
because this was completely surprising and humorous , casey was looked at the funny idea and his argument five million times .
this approach applies to everything that we do creatively .
on september 10 , last year , the machine went on for the first time .
and all of this leads to the one big question ...
what does that mean ?
ohhhh .
what does that mean ?
tastemaker , creative participants , totally unexpected , are the features of a new kind of media and culture that everybody has access to , and in which the audience determines popularity .
as i said , one of the biggest stars -- justin bieber -- did his beginning on youtube .
no one has to give green light to your ideas .
and today we all feel that we are owners of our pop culture .
and that &apos;s not the features of the old media , and they hardly meet the media of today , but they will determine the conversation of the future .
thank you .
and this picture was taken by atlas .
the story is not over yet .
it &apos;s a puzzle that &apos;s still put together .
i want to tell you about some of the puzzles .
imagine the first piece : a man who burns his life &apos;s work .
he &apos;s a poet , a writer , a man whose whole life was held together by the simple hope of oneness and freedom of his home .
think about it in terms of the communications in saigon , how he has to admit that his life had been a single waste .
the words , as long as his friends , were now joking his .
he went back to silence .
he died , broken through the story .
it caused immense jewelry in the control room .
he &apos;s my grandfather .
i never met him personally .
but our lives are so much more than our memories .
my grandmother never let me forget his life .
i had to make sure it wasn &apos;t free , and it was my job to learn that the story was trying to crush us , but we were overwhelmed .
the next piece of the puzzle shows how a boat in the early morning red goes to sea .
my mother may was 18 when her father died -- already in an arranged marriage , with two little girls .
for her life , she had set a task : the escape of her family and a new life in australia .
it was completely exclusive that it could fail .
after a four-year-old and film , saga glitt a boat still on the lake as a fishing boat .
it &apos;s a picture of the first radiation particle that returned the entire distance around the lhc , then intentionally collided with some of the lhc to make a rain of particles on the detector .
all adults were aware of the risks .
the biggest fear they had of pirate , rape and death .
like most adults on the boat , my mother carried a little poison bottle .
in a prisoner , my sister and i would have drank you and my grandmother .
my first memories are from this boat -- the steady tuckers of the engine , the clapping of every wave on the bug , the long and empty horizon .
i don &apos;t remember the pirate that came many times , but the death courage of the men on our boat , or the fall of the engine that didn &apos;t want to start six hours .
but i remember the lights of the oil platform off the malayan coast , and the young man who collapsed and died , the end of the journey was too much for him , and the taste of the first apple that gave me one of the men on the platform .
no apple has ever swallowed that way .
after three months in a refugee camp , we ended up in melbourne .
and the next piece of the puzzle is about four women in three generations who together build a new life .
but what makes voodoo so interesting is this living relationship between the living and the dead .
in other words , when we saw this image on september 10 , we knew that the machine works , which is a big triumph .
we went down to footscray , one of the working-class suburbs , which is population of immigrant layers .
unlike the old-fashioned middle class suburbs , whose existence was completely unknown to me , there was no sophisticated thinking in footscray .
the odors from the charges came from the rest of the world .
and the fetuses broken english were traded between people who had one thing in common : they started again .
my mother worked on farms , then on a assembly line in a car factory , six days , double-layers .
she somehow managed to find the time to get english and items .
we were poor .
every dollar was given , and was put in more education for english and mathematics , no matter what we had to do for it . most of the time , the new things that were always coming from the second hand .
two of the fights for school , each one to cover the holes in the other .
a school uniform up to the buttons , because it had to reach six years .
i don &apos;t know if this created the biggest jubel , or this , when someone went to google and found the front page like this .
and there were the rare but painful choirs of &quot; close eye , &quot; and here and there are tapestries : &quot; asian , go home . &quot;
home where ?
something blew up in me .
there was a meeting with reconciliation , and a quiet voice said , &quot; i &apos;m going to go out of your way . &quot;
my mother , my sister and i slept in the same bed .
my mother was exhausted every night , but we told each other about our day , and we listened to the movements of our grandmother in the house .
my mother suffered from the boat from nightmares .
and it was my job to stay awake every night until their nightmares came , so i could wake them up .
and she opened up a computer business , and then she did a cosmetic education , and she opened up a business .
and the women came with their stories about men who didn &apos;t make the change , angry and inflexible , and sorted kids , caught between two worlds .
it means that we have a cultural impact next to the scientific .
loans and sponsors were searched .
centers were built .
i lived in parallel worlds .
in one , i was the classic asian student who put unquestionable demands on her own .
in the other , i was involved in unsafe lives that carried tragic scars of violence , drug abuse and insulation .
but so many people got help over the years .
and because of this help , my last year of law school , i was chosen as a young australian of the year .
and i was catapulted from one piece of the puzzle to the next piece , and the edges didn &apos;t fit together .
tan le , anonymous resident of footscray , was now tan le , refugee and social activist who was invited to speak in places that she had never heard of , and in housing , whose existence she could never have imagined .
i was not familiar with the label .
about a week later , there was a problem with the machine that had to do with these wires here -- these golden wires here .
i didn &apos;t know how to use the bribe .
i didn &apos;t know how to talk about wine .
i didn &apos;t know how to talk about anything .
i wanted to go back to the routine and the convenience of the life of an unknown suburb -- a grandmother , a mother and two daughters that closed every single day as they &apos;ve been for 20 years , by telling each other the stories of their day and sleeping , we &apos;re still in the same bed .
i told my mother i wouldn &apos;t do that .
she reminded me that i was now as old as she was when we climbed the boat .
no , never had been an opportunity .
&quot; just do it , &quot; she said . &quot; and don &apos;t be what you &apos;re not . &quot;
so i talked about youthlessness and education , and the neglect of the marginalized and disenfranchised .
and the more open i talked , the more i should tell .
these wires lead 13-thousand-ampere when the machine runs to high performance .
i met people in all of their livelihoods , so many of them did what they loved , lived at the limits of the possible .
and even though i graduated from it , i realized that i couldn &apos;t find myself with a career in jura .
there had to be another piece of puzzle .
and i realized at the same time that it &apos;s okay to be an outsider , a newcomer , new in the image -- and not just okay , but something you have to be grateful for , maybe a gift of the boat .
because belonging is so easy to lead to collapse on the horizon , it can mean so easy to accept the assumptions of the environment .
i &apos;ve gone enough from my comfort zone to know that , yes , the world is breaking apart , but not the way you fear it .
opportunities that were not allowed were explicitly emplified .
there was a energy , an unquestionable optimism , a strange mixture of humility and the guts .
so i followed my gut feeling .
i collected a small team of people around me , for which the shoe &quot; doesn &apos;t go , &quot; an inconsistent challenge .
now , the engineers amongst you will look at them and say , &quot; no , you don &apos;t . these are little wires . &quot;
we didn &apos;t have a cent for a year .
at the end of a day , i cook a giant pot of soup that we shared .
we worked late at night .
most of our ideas were crazy , but they were a few brilliant people , and we made the breakthrough .
i made the decision to move to the united states .
after just one journey there .
my gut feeling again .
three months later , i was moved , and the adventure went on .
before i close the talk , i want to tell you about my grandmother .
she grew up at a time when confucianism was the social norm and local mandarin was the most important person .
they can do that because if you cool them down very far , they become so-called superconductors .
life hadn &apos;t changed for centuries .
her father died shortly after her birth .
her mother raised her own .
at 17 , she became the second woman of a mandarin whose mother beat her .
without support of her husband , she cared for a sensation by bringing him to court and ankling in her own case , and a greater sensation than she won .
&quot; don &apos;t go , &quot; it turned out to be untrue .
i was just shooting in a hotel room in sydney when she died , 1,000 miles away in melbourne .
i looked through the shower wall , and i saw it standing on the other side .
i knew she had come to say goodbye .
my mother called me a few minutes later .
so , at minus 271 degrees , colder than the room between the stars , these wires can hold the tension .
a few days later , we went to a buddhist temple in footscray and sat around their sarg .
we told her stories , and we assured her that we were with her .
at midnight , the monk came and said he had to close the sarg .
my mother asked us to touch her hand .
she asked the monk , &quot; why is your hand so warm and the rest of her is so cold ? &quot;
&quot; because they &apos;ve been holding them since this morning , &quot; he said .
&quot; you didn &apos;t let them go . &quot;
if there &apos;s a band in our family , it goes through the women .
see who we were , and how life shaped us , we can now see that the men who might have come into our lives would have come to the squeeze .
the defeat would have been too simple .
in one of the connections between over nine thousand magnets in the lhc , there was a mandate defect .
now i &apos;d like to have my own children , and i &apos;m still thinking about the boat .
who would ever want one ?
yes , i &apos;m afraid of privilege , of ease , of legitimacy .
can i give you a bug in your life , which is bold to every wave , the unconfused , steady tuckers of the engine , the vast horizon that doesn &apos;t guarantee anything ?
i don &apos;t know .
but if i could give this and make it safe , i would do it .
and also , tans &apos;s mother here today is in the fourth or the fifth row .
i &apos;m here to share my photography with you .
is it even photography ?
because , of course , this is a picture that you can &apos;t pick up with your camera .
and so all of a sudden , the wires are lightweight and 13-thousand ampere encountered electric resistance .
and yet , my interest in photography began when i got my first digital camera at the age of 15 .
i combined it with my previous preference for drawing , but it was a little bit different , because when i was using the camera , the process was actually in planning .
and if you take a picture with a camera , the process ends when you press the trigger .
so for me , photography seemed to be more about being in the right place at the right time .
i thought everybody could .
so i wanted to create something else , something that the process starts when the trigger is pressed .
photographs like this : a building site along a much riding road .
but it has an unexpected twist .
and yet , it holds a realistic level .
or photographs like this -- dark and colorful at the same time , but all with the common goal to keep a realistic level .
the living ones give birth to the spirits .
this was the result .
when i say reality , i mean photoreality .
because , of course , it &apos;s not something that you can really capture , but i always want to make it look like it could have , in a photograph .
photographs where you have to think for a moment to find out the trick .
so it &apos;s more about capturing an idea than really a moment .
but what is the trick that makes it look realistic ?
is it about the details or the colors ?
is it about the light ?
what creates the illusion ?
sometimes the perspective is the illusion .
but ultimately , it &apos;s about how we interpret the world , and how it can be made palpable on a two-dimensional surface .
now , all of this is even more amazing when you imagine that the magnets weigh over 20 tons and shifted by about 30 inches .
it &apos;s not what &apos;s realistic , but what we think is realistic .
so i think the foundations are very simple .
i see them as a puzzle of reality , where you can take different pieces and put them together to create an alternative reality .
and let me show you a simple example .
we have three perfectly imaginable physical objects that we can all identify with in a three-dimensional world .
but in a certain way , you can create something that still looks three-dimensional as if it could exist .
but at the same time , we know that this is not possible .
so we overlists our brains , because our brains just don &apos;t accept that it really doesn &apos;t make sense .
and i see the same process in combining photographs .
it &apos;s really just about combining different realities .
so we damaged about 50 of the magnets .
so the things that make a picture look realistic , i think it &apos;s the things that we don &apos;t think about , the things around us in our everyday lives .
but if we combine pictures , it &apos;s really important to think about it , because otherwise they just look wrong .
so i would say that there are three simple rules to follow to achieve a realistic outcome .
as you can see , these are not three special images .
but combined , you can create something special like this .
so the first rule is that combined photos should have the same perspective .
secondly , combined photos should have the same kind of lighting .
and these two pictures meet these two demands -- shot from the same height and the same kind of lighting .
third , it &apos;s about making it impossible to distinguish where the individual images start and end by connecting them seamlessly .
it &apos;s impossible to say how the photo was actually put together .
and they had to remove what we did .
so by comparing color , contrast and brightness to the edges , adding photographic deprivation , like field depth , depleted colors and disorders , we wipe the boundaries between the different images and make them look like a single photograph , even though a picture can contain basically hundreds of levels .
here &apos;s another example .
you might think that this is just a landscape , and the lower part was manipulated .
but in fact , this picture is completely composed from photographs of different places .
i personally find that it &apos;s easier to create a place than to find a place , because you don &apos;t have to compromise with the ideas in your head .
but it requires a lot of planning .
and when i had this idea in the winter , i knew that it took me several months to plan it , to find the different places for the pieces of the puzzle .
for example , the fish had been recorded on a friction trip .
the bank is from a different place .
the underwater part comes from a quarry .
we reconditioned them , we repaired them .
and yes , i even colored the house up on the top of the island in red to make it look swedish .
so to get to a realistic outcome , i think it &apos;s going to go out on planning .
i always start with a sketch , an idea .
and then it &apos;s about the combination of the different images .
and here , every piece is very well planned .
and if you take good pictures , the result can be pretty beautiful , and also pretty realistic .
so all the tools are there , and the only thing that &apos;s going to limit us is our imagination .
thank you .
i &apos;d like to talk to you about why so many electronic health projects fail .
and i think the most important point is that we &apos;ve stopped talking to our patients .
they &apos;re all back in their way now .
and one of the things that we introduced at the radboud university was to do a major listener .
she doesn &apos;t do particularly scientifically -- she puts a cup of coffee or tea , and she asks the patients , families , relatives , &quot; how do you do ?
how can we help you ? &quot;
and we think we want to think that this is one of the main problems , why everyone -- maybe just most of the electronic health projects are missing : because we &apos;ve stopped listening .
this is my wlan-wage . it &apos;s a very simple thing .
she &apos;s got a button , on / out .
and every morning , i jump on it .
and yes , i have a task , as you might recognize .
i did my job at 95 pounds .
it works very simply : every time i jump to the scale , it also sends my data to google health .
at the end of march , the lhc will be again functional .
and that &apos;s where they &apos;re called from my general doctor , so that they can see where my weight problem is , not only the moment i need cardiology support or something , but also with a glimpse of the past .
but there &apos;s something else .
maybe you know that , i have over 4,000 followers on twitter .
so every morning , i jump on my wlan-wage , and people are talking to me before i sit in the car , &quot; for lunch , just a little salad today , lucia . &quot;
but this is the nicest thing that can happen because this is the group compulsion , group pressure , to help patients , because this could be used to obesity , or it could be used to smoke patients .
but it could also be used to get people out of their chairs and get them to play some kind of game together to better control their health .
it comes to the market next week .
there &apos;s going to be this little blood pressure device that you attach to an iphone or something .
and it will allow people to measure their blood pressure from home , send it to their doctor and share it with others , for example , for a little over 100 dollars .
at this point , the patients come in , not only can they take control , be captain on their own ship , but they can also help us in the face of the challenges that are ahead of us , and the cost explosion of health care , double-demand , and so on .
we &apos;re going to turn it on , and expect the first data in june or july to collect , and continue our journey to figure out what the building blocks of the universe are .
make methods that are easy to use and start to hug patients in the team .
and they can do that through these methods , but also crowdsourcing .
and one of the things we &apos;ve done , i want to share with you through a short video .
we have all the navigation systems in our cars .
maybe even in our cell phones .
we know exactly where all the atms are around maastricht .
we know another one where all the gas stations are .
and sure enough , we can find fast food chains .
but where would the next aed be to help this patient ?
we asked , and no one knew .
well , of course , in a way , such accidents are again sparking the debate about the value of science and engineering on such boundaries . it &apos;s easy to reject something like this .
nobody knew where to find the next life-saving aed at that moment .
so what did we do ? we did crowdsourcing in the netherlands .
we built a website and asked a crowd of people , &quot; if you see an aed , please share with us where he is , &quot; because sometimes he &apos;s closed during business , of course .
and over 10,000 aeds were already reported in the netherlands .
the next step was to find the apps for that .
and we created an ipad app .
we &apos;ve developed an app for layar , augmented reality to find these aeds .
and if you &apos;re in a city like maastricht and someone collapses , you can use your iphone , and in the next few weeks , your microsoftware cell phone to find the next aed that can save lives .
and today , not only do we want to introduce this as aed4u , what the product is called , but also as aed4us .
and we want to take this to a global level .
i think the fact that it &apos;s so hard to reach beyond our limits is the value of things like the lhc .
and we ask our colleagues around the world , from other universities , to help us behave like nodes to crowdsource these aeds around the world .
and if you &apos;re on vacation and someone collapses , whether it &apos;s your own relationship or somebody else , you can find an aed like that .
the other thing we want to ask for is that companies around the world are helping us to confirm these aeds .
these could be copper services , or technicians , for example , just to make sure that the aed is still at its point .
please help us do this , and try not only to improve health , but to take control of it .
thank you .
today , i &apos;m going to report unexpected discoveries .
i work in the solar technology industry .
and my little startup wants us to force ourselves to conserve by ...
... it &apos;s paying attention to crowdsourcing .
the spirits can be conspired by under the great water , answers to the rhythm of dance , to push the soul of the living temporarily , so that the acolyth will become the god for a short shiny moment .
i &apos;m going to leave my final words to an english scientist . humphrey davy , who , i think , defended the useless experiments of his teaching , his apprentice was michael faraday , said this : &quot; nothing is so dangerous for developing the human mind as to assume that our scientific ideas are final , that there are no mysteries in nature , that our triumphy are full , and that there are no new worlds to conquer . &quot;
here &apos;s a short video of what we do .
oh . a moment .
it may take time for it to be invited .
now -- we can just jump this over -- i &apos;m just going to skip the video instead ...
no .
that &apos;s not ...
okay .
solar technology is ...
oh , my time is over ?
okay . thank you very much .
thank you .
so a couple of years ago , i started a program to get the stars in technology and design to take a year out and work in an environment that &apos;s pretty much everything that they actually hate , we made them work in the government .
the program is called &quot; code for america , &quot; and it &apos;s a little bit like the freaks peace corps .
we choose some fellows every year , and we let them work with city administrations .
instead of sending them to the third world , we &apos;re going to send them to city hall .
and there they developed great apps , working with urban employees .
but what they really do is to show what &apos;s possible today with technology .
so they meet al .
al is a hydrant in the city of boston .
here it looks like he &apos;s looking for a date , but what he &apos;s really looking for is somebody who &apos;s releasing it when he &apos;s snowed in , because he knows he &apos;s not very good at the burn , when he &apos;s covered by a meter snow .
how did he get to look for help in this particular way ?
i &apos;m a writer .
we had a team of fellows in boston last year , and we had the code for america &apos;s program .
they were there in february , and it did a lot of work last february .
and they realized that the city would never open these hydrants .
but a particular fellow , a man named erik michael ober , noticed something else , and that was that the residents freed up the sidewalks , right in front of these parts .
so he did what every good developer would do , he wrote an app .
it &apos;s a nice little app where you can adopt a hydrant .
you agreed to open it up when it snows .
if you do that , you can give him a name , and he called the first al .
if you don &apos;t do that , somebody can take it away from you .
so there &apos;s a nice little game dynamic .
writing books is my profession , but it &apos;s , of course , more than that .
this is a modest little app .
it &apos;s probably the smallest of the 21 apps that the fellows wrote last year .
but it does something that no other government technology does .
it &apos;s rapidly spreading .
there &apos;s this guy in the i.t. department of the city of honolulu who saw that he could use this app , not for snow , but for the citizens to adopt tsunami sirens .
it &apos;s very important that these tsunami sirens work , but people steal the batteries .
so he got the citizens to check it .
and then seattle decided to use the app to get the citizens to clean the gulls clogged .
and chicago has just introduced them so that people can get the bookstores freed out when it snows .
we now know nine cities planning to use this app .
it &apos;s also my great , lifelong love and fascination .
and it &apos;s spread freely , organic , of course .
if you know something about government technology , you know it doesn &apos;t usually work that way .
the software is usually going to take a few years to create .
we had a team that worked on a project in boston last year that took three and a half months to do it .
it was about a method that parents can figure out which ones are the right public schools for their children .
we were told later that if it were to go over the normal channels , it would have taken over two years and it would have cost over two million dollars .
and that &apos;s nothing yet .
there &apos;s a project in california &apos;s law right now that the taxpayers have cost two billion dollars , and it doesn &apos;t work .
and there are projects like this on every level of the government .
so an app that &apos;s written in a couple of days , and then it spreads from rare , is kind of a shot before the bug on the government &apos;s institution .
and i don &apos;t expect that to change .
it shows how the government could work better -- no longer like a private company , how many people think it should .
and not even like a technology company , but rather like the internet itself .
and that means free access , which means open and productive .
and that &apos;s important .
but more important about this app is that it represents a new generation that tackles the problem of government -- not as the problem of a saled institution , but as a problem of collective action .
and this is a very good news , because it turns out that we &apos;re very good at collective action with digital technology .
now there &apos;s a large community of people who are making the tools that we need to effectively tackle things together .
it &apos;s not just &quot; code for america , &quot; fellows , there are hundreds of people all over the country who get up and write government apps every day in their own communities .
they didn &apos;t give up the government .
they &apos;re terribly frustrated with her , but they don &apos;t complain about her , they repair her .
but recently , something weird happened in my life and my career that made me completely rethink my relationship to this work .
and these people know something that we &apos;ve lost from their eyes .
and that &apos;s when you forget all your feelings about politics and the snake in the workplace and all the other things that we &apos;re really excited about , is government , at the core , in the words of tim o &apos;reilly , &quot; what we do together , that we can &apos;t do alone . &quot;
today , a lot of people have given up the government .
and when you &apos;re one of those people , i ask you to think about it , because things change .
the politics doesn &apos;t change ; the government is in change .
and because the government finally takes their power out of us -- remember , &quot; we the people ? &quot; -- as we think about it , is going to affect how this change happens .
i didn &apos;t know very much about government when i started this program .
and like a lot of people , i thought the government was mainly about choosing people into an amt .
now , after two years , i &apos;ve come to the conclusion that it &apos;s all about communities , and it &apos;s about thylacines .
this is the call center for service and information .
this strange event was that i recently wrote a book -- a biography called eat , pray , love -- which , unlike all my previous books for some reason , went out into the world and became a big mega-event , international bestseller thing .
that &apos;s where you usually get out when you call in your city 311 .
if you ever have the opportunity to work in your urban call center , like our fellow scott silverman as part of the program -- in fact , do it all -- you &apos;ll see that the people who call the government for many different problems , including that there &apos;s a thumb rat in their house .
so scott gets this fruit .
he types &quot; thylacines &quot; into the official database .
and he doesn &apos;t really have an idea . he starts with the animal beginner .
and finally , he says , &quot; look , can you just open all the doors in your house and play very loud music and see if the livestock skin ? &quot;
and that worked . applause for scott .
but that wasn &apos;t the end of the thylacines .
boston doesn &apos;t just have a call center .
it has an app , a web and cell app , called citizens connect .
the result is that , no matter where i come from , i &apos;m treated as if i &apos;m refused to the demise .
we didn &apos;t write this app .
this is the work of very smart people at the new urban mechanics office in boston .
one day -- this is an actual report -- came in : &quot; thylacines in my trash bin can &apos;t tell if it &apos;s dead .
how do i get it away ? &quot;
but what happens to citizens connect is different .
scott was talking about human to human beings .
but on citizens connect , everything is public , so everybody can see it .
and in this case , it saw a neighbor .
and the next post we got was , &quot; i went over there , found the garbage bin behind the house .
thylacines ? yes . alive ? yap .
seriously -- the demise !
turned the garbage bin on the page . went home .
good night , sweet thylacine . &quot;
pretty simple .
that &apos;s great . that &apos;s where digital is hitting the physical .
and it &apos;s also a good example of how to get the government into crowdsourcing .
but it &apos;s also a great example of government as a platform .
and i don &apos;t necessarily mean a technical definition of the platform here .
i &apos;m more talking about a platform for people to help themselves and to help others .
one citizen helped another citizen , but the government played a central role here .
they connected these two people .
so the voodooists like to say , &quot; you white go to church and you talk about god .
for example , do you get very worried about me and say , &quot; don &apos;t you fear you &apos;re never going to overcome this success ?
and you could have connected them to state services if they had been needed , but a neighbor is a far better and much cheaper alternative to state services .
if one neighbor helps the other , we strengthen our communities .
let &apos;s call the animal beginner , it costs a lot of money .
one of the most important things is that we have to think about it , is that government is not the same as politics .
and most people understand that , but they think that one is the input of the other .
that our contribution to the system is choosing .
how often did we choose a political leader -- and sometimes we used a lot of energy to choose a new political leader -- and then we refuse , and we expect that the government , our values , to reflect and fulfill our needs , and then not much changed ?
that &apos;s because the government is like a further ocean , and politics is the top 15cm .
and what &apos;s below is what we call bureaucracy .
and we use this word with such contempt .
are you not afraid that you will continue your whole life and never create a book that anyone in the world cares about ? never again ?
but it &apos;s this contempt that makes this thing that we own , and that we pay for , be something that works against us , something else , and then we set ourselves up .
people seem to think , politics is sexy .
if we want this institution to work for us , we have to do bureaucracy sexy .
because that &apos;s where the actual government work is happening .
we have to rely on government &apos;s machinery .
so the occupational occupation movement did it .
did you see these guys ?
it &apos;s a group of troubled citizens who wrote a very detailed 325 page report , which is an answer to the sec-memo about the financial reform legislation .
that &apos;s not being politically active , that &apos;s being bureaucratic .
now , for those of us who have given up the government , it &apos;s time for us to think about the world that we want to leave to our children .
okay , that &apos;s really courage .
you have to imagine the enormous challenges that they have to face .
do we really believe that we can do what we need to do without improving the institution that can do in the name of all of us ?
a government is absolutely necessary , but it needs to be more efficient .
the good news is that technology makes it possible to fundamentally reframe the function of government in a way that can actually do something by empowering society .
and there &apos;s a generation that &apos;s grown up with the internet , and that knows that it &apos;s not that hard to do things together , you just have to build systems right .
now the average age of our fellows is 28 , so i am , unfortunately , almost a generation older than most of you .
this is a generation that &apos;s grown up seeing your voice for granted .
they &apos;re not fighting this battle that we &apos;re all fighting about who &apos;s allowed to speak ; they &apos;re all allowed to speak .
you can make your opinion , on every channel at any time , and you do .
so , if you &apos;re faced with the problem of the government , don &apos;t care so much about using your voices .
but it would be worse if i didn &apos;t remember , over 20 years ago , when i first told the teenagers that i wanted to be a writer , i was confronted with the same kind of anxiety response .
they use their hands .
they use their hands to write applications that improve government &apos;s work .
and these apps let us use our hands to improve our communities .
that might be to release a fire hydrant , to hunt weeds , to turn a trash can with a thylacine rat .
and sure , we could have released these hydrants all the time , and a lot of people do .
but these apps are like little digital memories that we &apos;re not just consumers , and we &apos;re not just consumers of the government who pay taxes and receive performance .
we are more than that , we are citizens .
and we &apos;re not going to improve government until we improve citizenship .
so the question i have for all of you here : when it comes to the big , important things that we have to do together , all together , are we just going to be a lot of voices , or are we going to be a lot of hands ?
thank you .
people said , are you not afraid to never succeed ?
usually , my role in explaining to people how wonderful the new technologies that have come up are going to be , and i thought , because i &apos;m here among friends , i would tell you what i really think , and also try to look back and understand what &apos;s really going on with these incredible leaps that are going on so fast that we can hardly keep up .
i &apos;m going to start by showing you a single , boring slide .
... you could just show the slide for a second .
this is a slide that i randomly chose from my folder .
i &apos;m not talking about the details of the slide , but rather the general shape .
this slide shows a data from us about the performance of risc processors compared to the performance of a local area network .
what &apos;s interesting here is that this slide , like some other ones that we often meet in our field , is a kind of semi-logarithmic curve .
in other words , every step here corresponds to a potential in the performance scale .
and this is a novelty that we need to use this type of scale on semi-logarithmic curves in technology .
something very strange is happening here .
don &apos;t you worry that the humiliation of a statement is killing you ?
this is basically what i &apos;m going to talk about here .
so , if you could turn on the lights again .
a little bit brighter , because i &apos;m going to draw something on the paper here in a moment .
now , why do we draw graphs in technology on semi-logarithmic curves ?
the reason for that is , if i were to draw it on a normal curve , where , say , this is the years , this is the timeline of a kind , and this is an arbitrary measurement of technology that i want to show with a graph , then the graph becomes silly .
they look like this .
and that doesn &apos;t tell us much .
now , if i wanted to record another technology , let &apos;s say a transportation technology , it would be very unrational on the semi-logarithmic scale , in the form of a flat line .
but if something like this happens , it changes the quality conditions .
so if the transportation technology was going to move as fast as the microprocessor technology , we could get into a taxi overmorning , and in 30 seconds we would be in tokyo .
don &apos;t you worry that you &apos;re going to go after your life and never come out of it , and you &apos;re going to die on a scrambled dreams -- your mouth filled with the bitter ashes of failure ?
but it &apos;s not that fast .
this has never happened before in the history of technology &apos;s development , this kind of recursive growth , where the scale increases exponentially every few years .
the question i want to ask you now is , if you look at these exponential curves , you see , they don &apos;t go on forever .
it &apos;s not possible that everything is evolving forever and forever as fast as it is now .
there are two options .
either it &apos;s going to be a classic s-curve like this , until something completely new comes along , or it &apos;s going to happen here .
that &apos;s kind of what it is .
well , i &apos;m an optimist , so i think something like this will happen .
if that &apos;s really the case , it means we &apos;re in the middle of a transition right now .
we are here on this line , in a transition from the world today to a new kind of world .
like that , you know .
so the question i want to ask , and i often ask myself , is how this new world will be ?
what is this new state that the world is starting to adopt ?
because the transition seems to be very , very confusing when you &apos;re in the middle of it .
when i was a kid , the future was somewhere in 2000 , and people were often talking about what was going to happen in 2000 .
now we have a conference where people talk about the future , and you realize that the future is still in 2000 .
beyond that , we don &apos;t go .
so in other words , the future has shrunk by a year since i &apos;ve been in this world .
i think the reason for this is that we realize that there &apos;s something going on .
the transition is happening . we can all feel it .
and we know that it just doesn &apos;t make sense to try to look 30 or 50 years into the future right now , because everything is going to be so different that a simple high calculation of what we &apos;re doing now simply doesn &apos;t make sense .
the answer -- the short answer to all of these questions is , yes .
now i want to talk about what this might be , this transition that we &apos;re in right now .
to do that , i &apos;m going to talk first about some other things that really have nothing to do with technology or computers .
because i think in order to really understand this , we have to take a step back and look at the thing on a longer scale of time .
and that is , i want to look at this on the time scale of life on earth .
i think the whole picture makes sense when you divide it into a few billion steps .
so let &apos;s go back , 2.5 billion years . the earth was a big , sterile stone clump with lots of floating chemicals .
now , if you look at the way that these chemicals were organized , it gives us a pretty good picture of how they did it .
i also think there are theories that start to understand how it all started with rna , but i &apos;m going to tell you a simplistic story about it , which is that at that time , little oil droplet was sweeping around , which had different kinds of recipes for chemicals .
some of these oil droplet contains a special combination of chemicals that allowed them to integrate other chemicals from outside and grow .
all of them who were like this started to divide .
yeah , i &apos;m afraid of all these things .
these little oil droplet were the most primitive cell form .
but these oil droplet weren &apos;t living in the world , because each one of them was just a little , random recipe of chemicals .
and every time it divided , the chemicals in it have spread to unequal quantities .
so each droplet was a little different .
in fact , the droplet grew , which had a more optimal composition for growth , faster than others , and integrated more and more chemicals from outside and shared faster .
so these tendencies to survive longer , and they multiplied in a larger scale .
so this is just a very simple chemical form of life , but more interesting , when these droplets learned a trick about abstraction .
in any way we don &apos;t quite understand , these droplets have learned the ability to write information down .
they &apos;ve learned to store the recipe of the cell as information in a particular chemical form , which we call dna .
in other words , they found a way in this insane , evolutionary way that allowed them to write down what they were made of , so that this information could be stored and copied .
we dance in the temple and we become god . &quot;
and i always had that .
and the amazing thing about this is that this kind of information to store over the time of 2.5 billion years that it came out remained the same .
in fact , the recipe is for us , which is our genes , which is exactly the same code and the same writing .
and every being uses the exact same letters and the same code .
we &apos;re so far that we can write , just for pleasure , even in this code .
and i &apos;ve got 100 micrograms of a white pulse here that i &apos;m trying to keep in airports from security staff .
there &apos;s -- what i did is i took this code -- the code is made of normal letters that we use to symbolize -- and i wrote my business card on a piece of dna , and i reinforced it 10 times .
so if somebody wants a hundred million copies of my business card , i have enough for everyone in this room and even for everyone in the world , and it &apos;s right here .
if i was actually a selfish , i would have written it on a virus and released it into the room .
so what &apos;s the next step ?
the writing of dna was an interesting step .
and i &apos;m afraid of a lot more things that no one would ever experience .
and that made these cells -- that made them happy for another billion years .
but then another very interesting step happened where things became completely different , and that was that these cells started to communicate and exchange information so that communities came from cells .
i don &apos;t know if you knew that , but bacteria can actually exchange their dna .
that &apos;s why , for example , the constituency of antibiotics is growing .
some bacteria have figured out how to stay away from penicillin and put this information together with other bacteria into the dna , and now we have a lot of bacteria that are resistant to penicillin because the bacteria communicate with each other .
this communication now allowed the reasons for communities that were in a sense in the same boat ; they were synergetic .
so they either survived together , or they went down together , and that meant that if a community was successful , all the individuals in the community were repeated more and preferred by evolution .
now the transition site is where these communities were so close together that they decided to write the recipe for the whole community into a drawing chain on dna .
and the next interesting phase took about another billion years .
at this point , we have multi-cellular communities , communities of many different cell types , that act together as a single organism .
like algae -- and other frightening things .
in fact , we &apos;re also such a multi-celled community .
we have a lot of cells that are no longer self-assembled .
your skin cells are useless without heart cells , muscle cells , brain cells and so on .
so these communities began to evolve , so that the level on which evolution was no longer the single cell , but the whole cell community , which we call organism .
now the next step happened within these communities .
the cell communities started to abstract information again .
and they developed special structures that did nothing but process information within the organism .
and these are the neural structures .
so the neurons are the information processing system that these cell communities have built .
they started to educate specialists within the community , special structures , which were responsible for learning , understanding and capturing information .
but when it comes to writing , i &apos;ve been thinking about it recently and asking myself , why ?
and this was the brain and the nervous system of these communities .
this gave them an evolutionary advantage .
because at this point , an individual -- learning happened within the period of time of the life of a single organism , rather than this evolutionary period .
so an organism could learn , for example , not to eat a particular fruit because it tasted bad and made it sick , the last time it eaten it .
now this could happen within the lifetime of a single organism , whereas before that , hundreds of thousands of years were required , because this information had to be learned evolutionarily by the individuals who died because of this fruit , because these information processing structures were not there .
so the nervous system has the evolutionary process with these particular information structures , because evolution has now been able to happen within an individual .
it could happen within a time frame of learning .
what happened after that was that the individual organisms found a way to communicate with each other .
so for example , the most sophisticated version of this kind of communication is human language .
it &apos;s a pretty amazing invention when you think about it .
is that reasonable ?
i have a very complicated , disorderly and confused idea in my head .
i &apos;m sitting here , and i &apos;m basically giving basic sounds of me , hoping to create a similar confusion idea in your head , which has a certain similarity with my original idea .
so we take something very complicated , turn it into sound , a sequence of sound , and produce something very complicated in the head of others .
so this allows us to work again as a unified organism .
and what we actually did , we , humanity , is we started to abstract .
we go through the same stages that multi-cell organisms have gone through -- the abstraction of our methods of holding data , presenting it .
for example , the invention of language was a small step in this direction .
telephony , computers , video banks , cd-roms and so on , all of our specialized mechanisms that we built in our community to be able to handle this information .
and it connects us all together to something that &apos;s much bigger , and it &apos;s also able to evolve faster than we have been .
so today , evolution can happen in the time span of microseconds .
is it logical that somebody should be expected to be afraid to do the work that they feel they &apos;re doing ?
you also saw tys &apos; little evolutionary example , where he showed a little bit of evolution in the convolution program , right in front of your eyes .
so now we &apos;ve slowed down the timeline again .
the first steps of history that i told you , took a billion years per piece .
the next steps , like the nervous system and the brain , took several hundred million years .
then the next steps , like language and so on , took less than a million years .
and these next steps , like electronics , seem to take a few decades .
the process feeds itself and becomes , i think , auto-catalytic is the word for it -- when something increases its change speed .
the more it changes , the faster it changes .
and i think that &apos;s what we see here in this explosive curve .
we see the process that feeds itself .
and what &apos;s going on with the creative enterprises that they make us uncertain about the state of mind -- in a way that other jobs don &apos;t do ?
i live professionally from building computers , and i know that i couldn &apos;t use the mechanism that i use to build computers without the more recent advances in computer technology .
my current activity is to design objects with such a high complexity that it &apos;s impossible for me to design them in the traditional sense .
i don &apos;t know what every single transistor does in the connection engine .
it has billions of them .
instead , what i do , and what the designers of thinking machines do , is , we think at a certain level of abstraction , we give the machine over , and the machine does something that exceeds our skills far beyond , better and faster than we could ever do .
and it does it partly with methods that we don &apos;t even really understand yet .
one way that &apos;s particularly interesting , and which i &apos;ve used a lot recently , is evolution itself .
and we &apos;re going to install an evolutionary process in the machine that &apos;s going on in the microsecond area .
to give an example , in the most extreme cases , we can create a program that emerges from random instructions .
we say , &quot; computers , please generate a hundred million randomly chosen sequences of instructions .
my father , for example , was a chemist , and i can &apos;t remember a situation in his 40 years as a chemist where he was asked if he was afraid to be a chemist .
now , please do all of these randomly chosen instructions , execute all the programs , and then finally choose the ones who are closest to my prescription . &quot;
so in other words , i define what i want first .
let &apos;s say i want to make numbers , that would be a simple example that i &apos;ve already used for it .
so find programs that can be the most marvelous number .
of course , in random instructions , the chance of instructions is very small that , by chance , they &apos;re just going to make numbers , so probably none of the instructions are going to do this .
but one of them , with some luck , likes two numbers in the right order .
now i say , &quot; computers , now take the 10 percent of the sequences that my prescription has come next .
store them down , dissolve the rest .
now , all the rest of the rest of the world that the numbers have best reproduced .
and with a recombination method , analog to reproduction . &quot;
with your chemical blockage , john -- how are you going to do that ?
take two programs , and they produce children through the exchange of their subroutines , and the kids inherit the features of the subroutines of the two programs .
so now i have a new generation of programs that came from combinations of programs that have come a little bit closer to the prescriptions than others .
say , &quot; please repeat this process . &quot;
reevaluating it .
maybe bring in some mutations .
and try the whole thing again with another generation .
all of these generations take just a few milliseconds .
and so i can have evolution go through a million years in the computer in a few minutes , or in more complicated cases , a few hours .
finally , i get programs that can perfectly sort numbers .
in fact , these programs are so much more efficient than any program i could have written by hand .
it just wasn &apos;t , you know ?
and when i look at these programs , i can &apos;t tell you how they work .
i tried to understand them .
it &apos;s distorted and strange programs .
but they do the job .
i know , and i &apos;m sure you do the job because you come from a series of hundreds of thousands of programs that have done the job .
because their lives depended on whether they did the job right .
i sat in a 747 with marvin minsky , and he pulled out a map and said , &quot; oh look . look at that .
it says , &quot; this airplane is made up of hundreds of thousands of little bits that work together to make your flight safer . &quot; doesn &apos;t that make you more confident ? &quot;
we know that an development process is not optimal when it gets too complicated .
so we &apos;re starting to rely on computers for a process that is very different from classical engineering .
and because you &apos;re obsessed , you &apos;re taken in by the mind . how can you be harmed ?
but to be fair -- the chemical group , over the centuries , did not get the reputation of alcohol addicts of manic depression .
it allows us to produce things with a much higher complexity than the normal methods would allow us to produce .
and yet , we don &apos;t really understand the possibilities of that yet .
so , in a way , technology is overwhelming us .
now we &apos;re using these programs to make computers much faster , so that we can do these processes even faster .
so there &apos;s a feedback .
it gets faster and faster , and i think that &apos;s why it seems so confusing .
because all these new technologies of today are feeding themselves .
we &apos;re going to pick up .
we got to a point where the analog is at that time , when one cell organisms evolved into multi-cell organisms .
so we &apos;re the amoebas , and we can &apos;t quite figure out what the hell we &apos;re actually creating here .
but we seem to have this kind of call , but not only the writers , but the creative of all genres , seem to have this call to be mentally unstable .
we &apos;re in the middle of this transition point .
but i really believe that something else comes after us .
i find it very difficult to say that we are the end product of evolution .
and i think we all here are part of the creation of whatever comes next .
well , the lunch is before , and i think i &apos;m going to stop here now before i get chosen .
my story starts right here in rajasthan , about two years ago .
i was under the starry sky in the desert with sufi singers mukhtiar ali .
we talked about the fact that nothing has changed since the time of the ancient indian epos , mahabharata .
if we wanted to travel indians then , we jumped into a car and swirled over the sky .
now we do this with airplanes .
all you have to do is look at the bitter death numbers of really great minds just from the 20th century , the young and often died from your own hand .
at the time , when the great indian warrior prince arjuna thirst , he took an arjuna , shot into the ground and water stepped out .
now we do this with drills and machines .
we came to the conclusion that magic and magic were replaced by machines .
that made me really sad .
i got a little scared of technology .
it scared me that i could lose the ability to enjoy the sunset without the camera and without tweet to my friends .
i found that technology should make magic possible and not kill .
when i was a little girl , my grandfather gave me his little silver pocket clock .
this piece of 50 years old technology became the most magical thing for me .
it became a golden access to a world of pirate and unfortunate ships and images in my imagination .
and even those who didn &apos;t actually have suicide seemed to be neglected by their talents .
it seemed to me that our fancy clocks and cameras were dreaming of it .
they kept us from being inspired .
and so i went into the world of technology to see how i could use it to enable magic instead of killing it .
at 16 , i started illustrating books .
when i saw the ipad , i saw it as a device for storytelling that can connect readers around the world .
it can know how to hold it .
it can know where we are .
it brings images and text together , and animation , sound and touch .
storytelling takes more and more senses .
but what do we do with that ?
norman mailer said just before he died in his last interview : every one of my books killed me a little bit further .
i just go to khoya , an interactive ipad app .
it says , &quot; put your fingers on every light . &quot;
and so -- here &apos;s the thing : &quot; this box belongs ... &quot; i write my name .
and i become a character in the book .
every once in a while , a letter for me falls down -- and the ipad knows where i live -- it &apos;s really addressed to me .
the child in me is really excited about this kind of opportunity .
i talked a lot about magic .
i mean , not magicians and dragons , but the magic of childhood , the ideas that we all had as children .
fireflies in a glass , i always found quite exciting .
so here you have to dump the ipad and get the fireflies out .
an extraordinary statement that you can make about your life &apos;s work .
and they light the way through the rest of the book .
another idea that fascinated me as a child is that a whole galaxy can be put in a single marble .
and so every book here and every world becomes a little marble that i &apos;m going to pull here to the magic device in the machine .
and this opens up a map .
fantasy books have always had maps , but these maps have been static .
this map grows and glows and serves for guidance in the rest of the book .
it also shows up in other parts of the book .
i go in here .
it &apos;s also important for me to create something that is indian , but also very time-consuming .
these are the apsaras .
but we don &apos;t even listen to somebody say that , because we &apos;ve known that kind of statement for so long , somehow , we &apos;ve embraced the notion of inwardly and collectively , that creativity and suffering somehow come together , and that art -- at the end -- always leads to the soul .
we &apos;ve all heard about feen and nymph , but how many people outside india know their indian colleagues , the apsaras ?
the poor apsaras were trapped in indras chambers for thousands of years in an old bold book .
and we bring them back , in a contemporary story for children .
it &apos;s a story that has to deal with new issues , like the environmental crisis .
the issue of environmental crisis , a big problem that &apos;s been around for the last 10 years , is that kids are sitting in their rooms , on their computers , without going out .
but now , with mobile technology , we can take our children into the natural world with their technology .
in an interaction of the book , you &apos;re sent to a search . you have to go out and collect natural objects with the camera of the ipad .
as a child , i had collections of stickers , stones , tiles and shells .
somehow , the kids don &apos;t do it anymore .
this is a childhood ritual returned . you have to go out to take a picture in a chapter of a flower and tag it .
the question i want to ask to everybody here today is : is this idea completely fine for you ?
in another chapter , you have to photograph and tag a piece of tree mri .
so you actually create a digital collection of photographs that you can then put online .
a child in london shows the picture of a fox and says , &quot; oh , i saw a fox today . &quot;
a child in india says , &quot; i &apos;ve seen a monkey today . &quot;
this creates a kind of social network around a digital collection of photographs that you &apos;ve actually taken .
there are a variety of ways of connecting magic to the world and technology .
in the next book , we &apos;re going to plan an interaction where you use the video of the ipad , and through augmented reality , you see an animation of 11 that appear on a plant in front of the house .
at one point , the screen is filled with leaves .
you have to make the sound of the wind , blow it away and read the rest of the book .
we &apos;re all moving to a world where the natural forces of technology can get closer and closer to the magic and technology .
do you feel comfortable with it ? because with just one centimeter away , i don &apos;t feel comfortable with this notion at all .
we use the energy of the sun .
we bring our children and ourselves closer to the natural world and to the magic , fun and the love of our childhood through the simple medium of a story .
thank you .
this is really an extraordinary honor for me .
i spend most of my time with people in examinative , prison or death cells .
i spend most of my time with the socially weakest in the social settlements and in places where there is a lot of hopelessness .
being here at ted , seeing and hearing how stimulating that is , has given me a lot of power .
in the short time here , i realized one thing : ted has an identity .
you can say things that have influence around the world .
and sometimes , when something comes over ted , it gets a meaning and power that otherwise wouldn &apos;t have .
i think they &apos;re adventurous .
i say that because i think identity is very important .
we &apos;ve seen some fantastic presentations .
i think we &apos;ve learned that the words of a teacher matter , but that the words of a dedicated teacher are particularly meaningful .
you can do good as a doctor , but as a nurturing doctor , you can do more .
and so i want to talk about the power of identity .
i didn &apos;t learn this in my work , by the way , as a lawyer .
i learned this from my grandmother .
i grew up in a family , a traditional african-american household dominated by a matriarch , and that matriarch was my grandmother .
she was a reef , strong woman , she had an effect .
she had the last word in every family fight .
look at these amazing demonstrations : voodoo akolyths in a trancestate , the glowing coal without combustion , an amazing illustration of the ability of the mind to influence the body so that it stops when it &apos;s put into a state of extreme arousal .
and i find it dangerous . and i don &apos;t want to see it being taken over to the next century .
she was also the starting point of many arguments in our family .
she was the daughter of a slave family .
their parents were born in virginia in the 1840s as slaves .
she was born by 1880 , and the experience of slavery shaped her worldview very much .
my grandmother was strong , but she was also loving .
when i met her as a little boy , she came up to me and hugged me .
she pushed me so hard that i could hardly breathe . then she let me go .
one or two hours later , when i met her , she came up to me and said , &quot; bryan , do you feel my hug ? &quot;
and when i said no , she hugged me again . when i said yes , she left me alone .
she was something that made that you always wanted to be close to her .
i think it &apos;s better for us to live our great creativity .
the only problem with that was that she had 10 children .
my mother was the youngest of her 10 children .
sometimes , if i wanted to spend time with her , it was hard to get her attention .
my cousins were walking all over the place .
i remember , i must have been eight or nine , that one morning i woke up and went to the living room , all of my cousins were walking around .
my grandmother sat at the end of the room and stared at me .
first of all , i thought that was a game .
i looked at her and smiled , but she looked very serious .
this went up about 15 or 20 minutes , and then she got up and she came over to me , and she took me in the hand and she said , &quot; come , bryan . you and i , we have to talk . &quot;
i remember it as if it was yesterday .
and i definitely know that for me , in my situation , it would be very dangerous to start to sneak down this dark path of the guess -- especially in the circumstance that i &apos;m in in my career right now .
i &apos;ll never forget it .
she took me out , and she said , &quot; bryan , i &apos;m going to tell you something , but you have to promise that you don &apos;t pass it on . &quot;
i said , &quot; promise , granny . &quot;
she said , &quot; honoring ? &quot; i said , &quot; yes . &quot;
she sat me down and looked at me . she said , &quot; i want you to know i watched you . &quot;
she said , &quot; i think you &apos;re special . &quot;
she said , &quot; i think you can do anything you want to do . &quot;
i &apos;ll never forget that .
and then she said , &quot; you just have to promise me three things , bryan . &quot;
i said , &quot; ok , granny . &quot;
that means -- look , i &apos;m pretty young . i &apos;m only about 40 years old .
she said , &quot; first of all , you will always love your mom . &quot;
she said , &quot; your mom is my baby , and you have to promise that you will always take care of her . &quot;
i adored my mother , so i said , &quot; yes , oma , i &apos;m going to do that . &quot;
and then she said , &quot; next thing you &apos;re going to do is you &apos;re going to do the right thing , &quot; even though it &apos;s hard to do the right thing . &quot;
and i thought , &quot; yeah , oma . i promise . &quot;
and finally , she said , &quot; the last thing you have to promise me is , &quot; you will never drink alcohol . &quot;
well , i was nine years old , and so i said , &quot; yes , oma . i promise it . &quot;
i grew up in the country , in the old , rural south , and i have a brother who is a year older and a year younger sister .
when i was about 14 or 15 , my brother came home one day and brought this sixpack beer with him grabbed my sister and me and went to the forest with us .
we were just silly around there as well as we were .
i may have another 40 years of work in me .
then he took a swallow of beer and offered one to my sister , and she assumed , and then she offered me one .
i said , &quot; no , no , no . all right . do you . i don &apos;t want a beer . &quot;
my brother said , &quot; well , do it . we do it now , you do everything else we do .
i had something , your sister had something . go , drink a beer . &quot;
i said , &quot; i don &apos;t want to . just do it . just do it . &quot;
my brother stared at me .
he said , &quot; what &apos;s going on with you ? now drink something . &quot;
and then he looked in my face and he said , &quot; oh no , you &apos;re not still going crazy because of the conversation with oma ? &quot;
i said , &quot; what are you talking about ? &quot;
he said , &quot; grandma tells all grandchildren that they are special . &quot;
and it &apos;s extremely likely that everything i &apos;m going to write from now on the world as the work that came from the success of my last book , right ?
i was devastated .
i &apos;m going to tell you something .
i probably shouldn &apos;t do that .
this may be public .
i &apos;m 52 years old , and i confess that i &apos;ve never drank a drop of alcohol .
i &apos;m not saying that because i think it &apos;s virtuous . i &apos;m saying that because identity is power .
if we create the right kind of identity , we can tell the people around us things that they don &apos;t believe first .
we can get them to do things that they thought they couldn &apos;t do .
of course , my grandmother would say all their grandchildren , they &apos;re something special .
my grandfather was in jail during the prohibition .
i &apos;m saying it straight , because we &apos;re all kind of friends here now -- it &apos;s very likely that my biggest success is behind me .
my uncles died of alcohol induced diseases .
and she believed that these were the issues that we needed to take care of .
i tried to say something about our justice system .
this country is different from 40 years ago .
in 1972 , 300,000 people were in prisoners and in jail .
today , it &apos;s 2.3 million .
the united states today has the highest incarceration rate in the world .
seven million people are discharged for currency , or with conditional exposure .
in my opinion , mass incarcerations have fundamentally changed our world .
in socially weak and black parts of the population , there is despair and hopelessness because of these changes .
oh , jesus , what a thought !
one out of three male black men between 18 and 30 is in prison , in prison , in permission , or in conditions of punishment .
in urban communities all over the country -- from los angeles to philadelphia to baltimore to washington -- 50 to 60 percent of all black men are either in prison , in jail , in the exposure to proclamation , or with conditional exposure .
but our system is not only shaped by questions that have to do with racial belonging , but it &apos;s also deployed by poverty .
we have a judicial system in this country that &apos;s much better to treat them when they &apos;re rich and guilty than poor and innocent .
wealth , not debt , affects the outcome .
and yet , we seem to be very satisfied with this .
a politics of fear and anger has convinced us that these problems are not our problems .
we &apos;ve lost touch .
i think that &apos;s interesting .
there are some very interesting developments .
these are the kind of thoughts that can get someone to start at nine o &apos;clock in the morning , drink gin . and i don &apos;t want that .
my home state of alabama is constantly pulling them out the right to vote when they &apos;re sentenced .
here and today in alabama , 34 percent of the male black population have permanently lost their right to vote .
we predict that in 10 years , the rate of recognition of civil rights is going to be as high as before the law of choice .
the silence is ears .
i represent children .
many of my clients are very young .
the united states of america is the only country in the world that convicts three-ten-year-old children to death in prison .
in this country , we have life penalty for children without conditional punishment .
we already have a lot of procedures .
the only country in the world .
i &apos;d rather continue to do this work that i love .
i represent people in death cells .
the death penalty question is an interesting question .
we believe that because we &apos;ve been taught so that the real question is : did a human being deserve to die for a crime he has ?
that &apos;s a very sensitive question .
but you can also think about it differently , depending on how we see our identity .
the other view is not : did anyone deserve for a crime , but did we deserve to kill ?
i think that &apos;s fascinating .
the death penalty in america is defined by error .
to nine people we &apos;ve executed , one that we &apos;ve found for innocence was discharged and discharged from the death cell .
an amazing error rate . one out of nine innocent .
but what &apos;s interesting is the unique tone of the song , the rhythm of dance in every culture .
now , of all the people i &apos;ve met , the safei from the sierra nevada de santa marta in northern colombia , the most extraordinary .
so the question is : how ?
i think that &apos;s fascinating .
we would never let anyone fly with an airplane if there are nine planes that are going to pick up , one of them will fall off .
but somehow we can get rid of this problem .
it &apos;s not our problem .
it &apos;s not our burden .
it &apos;s not our fight .
i &apos;m talking a lot about these questions .
i &apos;m talking about race and the question of whether we have the right to kill .
and it &apos;s exciting because i teach my students african-american history . i talk about slavery .
i &apos;m talking about terrorism , the time at the end of reconstruction , to the beginning of world war ii .
after some time of reflection , it seems to me that to continue writing , i have to design a kind of protective psychological construct .
we don &apos;t really know very much about it .
but for the african-american in this country , it was a time of terror .
in many areas , people had to be afraid of lynchmobs .
or before bombs .
it was the fear of terror that shaped their lives .
these older people are now coming to me and saying , &quot; mr , stevenson , you &apos;re talking , you &apos;re giving talks . you &apos;re telling people to stop saying we have to do it with terrorism for the first time in the history of our nation : 9 / 11 . &quot;
they say , &quot; no , tell people that we grew up with it . &quot;
and of course , after terrorism , the racing and decades of the racist motivated submission and apartheid came .
and yet , there &apos;s a dynamic in our country -- we don &apos;t like to talk about our problems .
we don &apos;t like to talk about our story .
somehow , from now on , i have to find a way to preserve a safe distance between myself and my very natural climbing about how the reaction will be to the writing level .
and so we don &apos;t really understand the importance of our actions in the historical context .
we &apos;re constantly bumping into each other .
we always create new tensions and new conflicts .
it &apos;s hard for us to talk about race , and i think that &apos;s because we &apos;re not willing to approach the process of truth and reconciliation .
in south africa , people have understood that the racial ratio is not over without the willingness to truth and reconciliation .
even after the genocide in rwanda , there was this willingness , but not in this country .
i gave some talks in germany about the death penalty .
it was fascinating because one of the scientists stood up after my talk and said , &quot; you know , it &apos;s deeply disturbing to hear you speak like this . &quot;
he said , &quot; there is no death penalty in germany .
and of course , it can never be in germany . &quot;
while i &apos;ve been looking for models this past year to do this , i &apos;ve also been looking for the past , and i &apos;ve been trying to find other societies to see if they might have better or more sensible ideas about it than we can help creatively to deal with the emotional risks associated with creativity .
it became silent . then a woman said , &quot; with our story , it &apos;s impossible that we will ever respond to the systematic killing of people .
it would be mindless of us to consciously and targeted people . &quot;
i thought about it .
how it would feel to live in a world where the german state made people tick , especially if there were a lot of jews under it .
it would be intolerable .
it would be mindless .
and yet , here in this country , in the states of the old south , we put people -- here &apos;s the risk of being convicted of death , 11 times higher if the victim is white than if it &apos;s black . 22 times higher when the dwarf is black , and the victim knows -- in the same states where the earth is resting the body of yellow people .
and yet , there &apos;s this mental disconnect .
i think our identity is threatened .
if we don &apos;t deal with it , with these difficult issues , then the positive and wonderful things are also affected .
this quest took me to the old greece and the old rome .
we love innovation .
we love technology and creativity .
we love entertainment .
but ultimately , these realities are overwhelmed by suffering , abuse , decomposition , limitation .
i think it seems to be important to unite both .
because we ultimately talk about how we need more hope , more engagement , more commitment to being able to be in a complex world .
to me , it &apos;s time to get to think and talk about the poor , the disadvantaged , the ones that will never be at ted .
but thinking in a way that is integrated into our own lives .
we all have to believe things that we can &apos;t see at the end .
we do . as rational as we are , as much as we appreciate intellect .
please follow me , because the circle will come back .
innovation , creativity , and development is not just coming from our heads .
they come from ideas that are driven by persuasion in our hearts .
it &apos;s this head-to-heart connection that i think drives us not only to be open to all the bright and exciting things , but also to the dark and problematic .
vaclav havel , the great chief politician , once said this .
when we fought in eastern europe against oppression , we wanted everything . but what we needed most was hope , a spiritual orientation , the willingness to be sometimes in hopeless places and witness .
this mental orientation is the core of what i believe the ted communities have to be involved in .
there &apos;s no boundary around technology and design that allows us to be fully human , as long as we don &apos;t have eyes and ears for poverty , limitation and injustice .
i want to warn you . this kind of identity requires a lot more of us than if we didn &apos;t care about it .
it &apos;s going to touch them deeply .
as a young lawyer , i have the great privilege of meeting pink parks .
but in ancient greece and rome , people didn &apos;t believe that creativity comes from people , ok ?
woman parks kept coming back to montgomery , where she had two of her oldest friends , these older women , johnnie carr , who had organized the montgomery bus boycott -- an incredible african-american woman -- and virginia durr , a white whose husband , clifford durr , dr. king .
so these women came together and just talked .
occasionally , ms. carr called me and said , &quot; bryan , ms. parks comes to the city . we want to talk .
do you want to come and listen ? &quot;
and i said , &quot; yeah , i love it . &quot;
she said , &quot; and what are you going to do if you &apos;re here ? &quot;
i said , &quot; i &apos;m going to listen . &quot;
and i went over and i just listened .
it was always so inspiring , so irritating .
and i sat there one day and i listened to these women , and after a few hours , ms. parks turned to me and said , &quot; well , bryan , tell me what the initiative is for the same right . &quot;
they believed that creativity was a kind of divine dienery spirit that comes from a distant , unknown source to people -- for unexplained , unknown reasons .
what are you trying to do ? &quot;
i started with my usual talk .
i said , &quot; we &apos;re trying to go against injustice .
wr wants to help people who were innocent .
we want to fight bias and discrimination in the criminal justice system .
we want to eliminate lifelong sentences without conditional punishment for children .
we want to do something about death penalty .
we want to reduce the number of inmates .
we want to eliminate mass incarceration . &quot;
i gave my usual talk , and after that , she looked at me and she said , &quot; mmm . mmm . mmm . &quot;
the greeks called these divine diener-spirits of creativity .
she said , &quot; that &apos;s going to make you very , very tired . &quot;
then ms. carr leaned in front of me , put a finger on my face and said , &quot; and therefore you have to be very , very brave . &quot;
and that &apos;s why i think the ted community should be bravers .
we have to find ways to face these challenges : these problems , these suffering .
because ultimately , our humanity depends on our humanity .
in my work , i learned very simple things .
i learned a couple of very simple things .
that we &apos;re all more than the worst thing we &apos;ve ever done .
i think that &apos;s true for every human on the planet .
when someone lies , they &apos;re not just a liar .
from socrates , he believed that he had a demonstration that would tell him about farther away .
if somebody takes something that doesn &apos;t belong to them , they &apos;re not just a thief .
even who kills someone is not just a murderer .
and because that is , there &apos;s a fundamental human dignity that has to respect the law .
i also believe that in many parts of this country , and certainly in many parts of the world , the opposite of poverty is not enough .
i don &apos;t think so .
i believe that in many places , the opposite of poverty is justice .
and finally , i believe that even though it &apos;s so dramatic , so beautiful and inspiring , and so inspiring , we &apos;re not going to be measured at the end of our technology , not at the things we &apos;re developing , not at our intellect and our minds .
finally , a society is not measured by how they treat their rich and powerful and privileged , but by how they deal with the poor , the convicted , the incarcerated .
because it &apos;s only in this context that we start to understand the truly amazing things that make us up .
sometimes i lose the balance . i end up with a story .
offspring of the ancient tyrannical civilization , which populated the caribbean coastal plain of colombia , and as a result of the conquest , this people withdrew into an isolated volcanic mass that goes up above the caribbean coastal plain .
the romans had the same idea , called this kind of body creative mind , a genius .
sometimes i push too much .
i get tired , like all of us .
sometimes these ideas will rush ahead of our thinking in a very important way .
i represent these kids who were convicted of too hard punishment .
i go to the research jail and i visit a client who may be 13 or 14 years old , who &apos;s supposed to be in court as an adult .
and then i wonder , how could this happen ?
how can a judge turn someone into something they &apos;re not ?
the judge looks at him as an adult , but i see a child .
one night , i stayed up too long , and i thought , oh my god , if a judge can turn us into something else , then he must have magic forces .
right , bryan , the judge has magic .
that &apos;s great . the robes didn &apos;t really think that a genius was a particularly smart individual .
you should want some .
and because it was late , and i couldn &apos;t really think it , i started working on a contract .
i had a 14-year-old , poor black boy as a client .
and i started this contract . the headline said , &quot; yield , my poor , 14-year-old black client , like a privileged white , 75-year-old top manager . &quot;
in my contract , i explained that the misconduct of the prosecution and the police and the driving errors was consistent .
there was a crazy line about the fact that there &apos;s nothing in this country that &apos;s only misconduct .
the next morning , i woke up and i didn &apos;t know if i had dreamed of this crazy contract or actually written it .
and i had not only written it , but sent it to the dish .
a few months went ahead , and i had just forgotten everything .
but finally , i decided , my god , i have to go to the court and do this crazy case .
they believed that a genius was this kind of magical divine creature that was believed in , literally , living in the walls of an artist &apos;s studio -- sort of like dobby , the house 11 -- that came out and would help the artist at work , and make the outcome of the work .
i got into the car and was really overwhelmed -- overwhelmed .
so i went to the court .
and i thought this was going to be so hard , so painful .
finally , i got out of my car and went up the staircase to the dish .
when i lifted up the staircase to the court , there was an elderly black man , the janitors in the court .
when he saw me , he came over to me and said , &quot; who are you ? &quot;
i said , &quot; i &apos;m a lawyer . &quot; he said , &quot; you &apos;re a lawyer ? &quot; i said , &quot; yes . &quot;
he came up to me and hugged me .
then he whispered in my ear .
he said , &quot; i &apos;m so proud of you . &quot;
this is brilliant -- there it is , there &apos;s the distance that i talked about -- the psychological construct that protects you from the consequences of your work .
and i have to say , it gave me power .
it touched something deeply in me , identity , the ability to contribute to a community , to a perspective of hope .
well , i walked into the courthouse .
as soon as the judge saw me .
he said , &quot; mr. stevenson , did you make this crazy commission ? &quot;
i said , &quot; yes . &quot; and then we started discussing .
more and more people came in just because they were angry .
that i had written these crazy things .
police officers came in and employed prosecutors and office workers .
in the handshake , the courthouse was full of people who were angry , that we talked about skin color , about poverty , about inequality .
and everybody knew it worked like this , right ?
from my point of view , i saw the janitor go up and down .
he kept looking through the window , and he could hear the whole tohuwabohu .
he went up and down .
finally , this older black man came in with a very concerned facial exclamation in the courthouse and sat right behind me , almost on the defense bank .
ten minutes later , the judge announced a break .
during the break , a police officer came in , and he was disturbing that the janitor was in the courthouse .
this deputy ran across to the older black .
he said , &quot; jimmy , what do you do in the courthouse ? &quot;
the older black man stood up . he looked at the deputy , and he looked at me , and he said , &quot; i came here to tell this young man , don &apos;t lose the goal out of the eyes . don &apos;t give up . &quot;
i &apos;ve come to ted because i think many of you have understood that the moral pendulum of the universe is going far , but that it &apos;s going to increase justice .
the artist of the age was protected from certain things , like , too much narcissism , right ?
that we , as humans , are not completely developed , unless we care about human rights and basic values .
that all of our survival is linked to every single person &apos;s survival .
that we need to connect our visions of technology and design , of entertainment and creativity to humanity , compassion and justice .
and most of all , i want those of you who see this as well to just say , don &apos;t lose the goal out of your eyes . don &apos;t give up .
you &apos;ve seen an obvious wish in this audience , this community , and you &apos;ve heard , to help them and do something .
what else can we do ?
bryan stevenson : well , there are opportunities everywhere .
if you live in california , this spring , there &apos;s a census decision about actually doing a job of reducing something of the money that otherwise flows into the politics of punishment .
for example , here in california , in the next five years , you &apos;re going to spend a billion dollars on death penalty , a billion dollars .
and yet , 46 percent of all the deadlines don &apos;t end with an arrest .
if your work was brilliant , you couldn &apos;t look at it all for you , everyone knew you had this disembodied genius that helped you .
56 percent of rape cases don &apos;t come to court .
here &apos;s the opportunity to do something .
this reference will propose to invest the money in more security forces and security .
i think there are opportunities everywhere .
over the last three decades , the crime rate in america has declined immensely .
this fact is often put into a relationship with the increased incarceration numbers .
what would you say to someone who believes that ?
well , in fact , the number of violent crimes has not changed very much .
most of the mass incarceration in this country was not really in the class of violent crimes .
it was the misguided cross against drugs .
if your work flew -- not entirely your fault , right ?
that &apos;s where the dramatic high rates come from the prisoners .
we &apos;ve been tearing down from the rhetoric of punishment .
now we have &quot; three violations &quot; laws that bring people behind the grid forever , for a bicycle theft , for the theft of theft , rather than forcing them to give things back to the victims .
i think we need to do more to help people who have become victims of a crime , not less .
and i believe that our current punishment philosophy doesn &apos;t help anybody .
i think that &apos;s what we need to change .
bryan , they really made a string here to vibrate .
they &apos;re an inspiring personality .
thank you for being at ted . thank you very much .
bin laden &apos;s death brings an increased risk of riding .
everybody knew your genius was a little lahm .
speaker 2 : famine in somalia . speaker 3 : pfefferspray of the police .
four : malignant cartels . speaker 5 : dangerous cruise ships .
six : social decline . speaker 7 : 65 dead .
speaker 8 : tsunami warning . speaker 9 : cyberattacks
different speakers : drug war . weapons of mass destruction . tornado .
recession . stand still . doomsday . egypt . syria .
crisis . death . disaster .
oh my god .
so these are just a few of the clips that i &apos;ve collected over the last six months -- it could have been the last six days , or the last six years .
the fact is that media preferences to show us negative topics because our mind is paying attention to these very topics .
so people in the west have really thought about creativity for a long time .
and there &apos;s also a very good reason for that .
every second of the day , our senses are capturing much more information than our brain can ever process .
and because we have nothing more important than our survival , the first stop for all the information is part of our temporal lobe , the amygdala .
so the amygdala is our early warning system , our driving detector .
it carries and carries through all the information in the search of any evidence of danger in our environment .
so when we see the news , we prefer to look for negative news .
and the old saying , &quot; if it bleeds , the demand goes up , &quot; is very true .
now , with all our digital devices that give us seven days a week , 24 hours a day , all these negative news messages , it &apos;s not a miracle that we &apos;re pessimistic .
it &apos;s not a miracle that everybody thinks the world is getting worse and worse .
but maybe that &apos;s not the case .
in a bloodbath continent , these people were the only ones that were never conquered by the spain .
and then the renaissance came along , and everything changed , and we had this big idea , and this big idea was , let &apos;s put the human individual in the center of the universe -- all the gods and mysteries -- and there &apos;s no room for mystical creatures to take the commands from the divine .
maybe that &apos;s the reality .
maybe the tremendous progress that we &apos;ve made in the last century is accelerating through a series of forces , so strong that we will be able to create a world of abundance in the next three decades .
now , i &apos;m not saying that we don &apos;t have big problems -- climate crisis , biodiversity loss , water and energy problems -- we already have them .
and as humans , we &apos;re much better at looking at problems in a very long way , but eventually they &apos;re overcome .
let &apos;s see what we &apos;ve achieved in the last century , so that we can anticipate development .
in the last 100 years , the average life expectancy has more than doubled , which has been adapted to the average income of the world &apos;s population has tripled .
child mortality has declined by a tenth .
and that is that the food , electricity , transportation and communication costs have been reduced by a lot .
steve pinker showed us that we &apos;re living in a very peaceful time of human history right now .
and according to charles kenny , the literacy rate has gone from 25 percent to 80 percent in the past 130 years .
it &apos;s the beginning of rational humanism , and people started to believe that creativity came from their own individual .
we live in a really extraordinary time .
and a lot of people forget this .
and we keep increasing our expectations .
in fact , we &apos;ve redefined poverty .
remember that a large percentage of americans who live under the poverty line have access to electricity , water , toilets , refrigerators , tv , mobile phones , air conditioners and cars .
the richest capitalists of the last century , the imperators of the earth , could never have dreamed of these luxury goods .
the basis of a lot of these forms technologies , and they grow expotentially .
my good friend ray kurzweil has shown us that every tool that becomes the information technology , on the curve of moore &apos;s law , makes big jumps , and the price performance quotient doubles every 12 to 24 months .
that &apos;s why the mobile phone in your pocket costs about a million times less , and it &apos;s a thousand times faster than a supercomputer from the &apos; 70s .
now look at this curve .
for the first time in history , you hear people call this artist or this artist a genius -- instead of having a genius .
this is moore &apos;s law over the last hundred years .
notice two things about this curve .
first , how smooth it is -- in good times , in war or peace , recession , depression and high conjuncture .
this is the result of faster computers building faster computers .
it doesn &apos;t slow down for any of our big problems .
and also , despite her logarithmic course on the left , she &apos;s walking upward .
so the growth rate itself is accelerating .
and on this curve , on the back of moore &apos;s law , we find a series of extraordinary technologies that are available to all .
&quot; cloud-computing , &quot; something my friends at autodesk call &quot; infinite computing , &quot; sensors and networks , robots , 3d printers that allow us to democratize personal production on our planet , synthetic biology , fuels , vaccines and food , digital medicine , nano-materials and artificial intelligence .
how many of you have seen the victory of ibm &apos;s supercomputer watson at risk ?
i have to tell you , i think that was a big mistake .
that was a great thing .
i went through the newspapers and looked for the best headlines that i could find .
i love this : &quot; watson is defeating human enemies . &quot;
&quot; risk &quot; is not a simple game .
it &apos;s about understanding the nuances of language .
imagine that this artificial intelligence of every mobile phone owner was available .
four years ago , ray kurzweil and i started a new university here at ted called singularity university .
we teach our students all these technologies , with special focus on how they can be used to solve the great challenges of humanity .
and every year , we ask the students , business , to create products and services that are positive in a decade to affect the lives of billions of people .
think about how a group of students today can influence the lives of billions of people .
you know ? i think to allow a mere person to think he or she is like the vessel , like the basin and the essence and the source of all divine , creative , unknown , infinite mystery is a little too much responsibility to burden them up to a fragile , human psyche .
30 years ago , this would have been ridiculous .
today we can point to dozens of companies that have done that .
when i think about creating abundance , i don &apos;t mean a life of luxury for everyone on the planet ; it &apos;s about creating a life of possibilities .
it &apos;s about creating abundance of goods .
because scarcity is contextual , and technology is a resource liberating force .
here &apos;s an example .
this is the story of napoleon ii. in the middle of the 18th century .
he &apos;s the guy on the left .
he invited the king of siam for dinner .
napoleon &apos;s soldiers got silver brick , napoleon himself got gold brick .
it &apos;s like asking someone to swallow the sun .
but the king of siam got aluminum bribe .
aluminum at that time was the most valuable metal on the planet , more valuable than gold and plate .
this is why the dome of the michael monument was made out of aluminum .
even though aluminum is 8.3 percent of the earth &apos;s mass , it doesn &apos;t seem pure metal .
it &apos;s connected by oxygen and silicon .
but then the technology of electrolysis was developed and made aluminum so cheap that we use it with our throwaway mentality .
and then let &apos;s project this analogy into the future .
we now think of energy scarcity .
ladies and gentlemen , we live on a planet filled with 5,000-times more energy than we use every year .
16 terawatts of energy are bouncing on the surface of the earth every 88 minutes .
that deals and distorts whole egos , and it creates all these unreachable expectations of success .
it &apos;s not scarcity , the problem is accessibility .
and there &apos;s good news .
in this year , they first managed to reduce the cost of solar power in india to 50 percent of the same electricity -- 8.8 rupees compared to 17 rupees .
the cost of solar was about 50 percent last year .
last month , this came out with a study that shows that by the end of this decade in the sunny areas of the united states , solar energy will cost six cents a kwh , compared to 15 cents a national average .
and if we have an overload of energy , we will also have water in abundance .
let &apos;s talk about water wars .
remember , when carl sagan turned the voyager spacecraft in 1990 , when it passed by saturn , back to earth ?
he took a famous photograph . what was it ?
&quot; a pale blue dot . &quot;
i think that this success pressure has devastated our artists for the last 500 years .
because we live on a planet of water .
we live on a planet that is 70 percent covered with water .
yes , it &apos;s 97.5 percent saltwater , two percent is ice , and we &apos;re fighting at 0.5 percent of the water on the planet , but here &apos;s hope .
and there are new technologies , not in 10 or 20 years , but now .
it &apos;s new nanotechnology on the way , nano-materials .
and from a conversation this morning with dean kaman , one of the innovators of the do it yourself , i want to share with you something -- he gave me the permission -- his technology , which is called the slingshot , and many of you may have heard about . it &apos;s the size of a refrigerator in the student &apos;s home .
it can produce a thousand liters of clean drinking water a day from different sources -- whether it &apos;s saltwater , polluted water , latrine -- and all of that for less than two cents a liter .
the head of coca-cola has just agreed to start a big test project with a hundred units in developing countries .
and if everything goes well , and i &apos;m very confident , coca-cola will apply this technology globally in 206 countries around the planet .
this is technology support innovation that &apos;s out there today .
and if that &apos;s true , and i think it &apos;s true , the question is this .
and we also saw this in mobile phones .
my goodness , we &apos;re going to reach the 70 percent reduction rate of mobile phones in developing countries by the end of 2013 .
just remember that a masai warrior with a cell phone in the middle of kenya has better mobile communication than president reagan 25 years ago .
and if you look at google with your smartphone , you have more access to knowledge and information than president clinton did 15 years ago .
they live in a world that has information and communication in abundance , as no one could have predicted .
and it &apos;s even better , the things that you and i have spent several thousand dollars on -- gps , hd video and photograph , libraries of books and music , technology to diagnose medicine -- are literally now being dematerialized and cheaper in your cell phone .
and the best thing about this is perhaps what &apos;s expected in health .
i had the pleasure last month with the qualcommand foundation to announce the so-called &quot; $ 10 million qualcomm tricorder x prize . &quot;
we challenge teams around the world to connect all these technologies to each other in a mobile phone so that you can talk to the device , because it &apos;s equipped with ai , you can go in and test your blood values .
and to win , the device has to diagnose better than a team of highly qualified doctors .
can we change it ?
imagine this device . in the middle of a developing country where there are no doctors , but 25 percent of the burden of disease and 1.3 percent of the staff of health care .
if this device sequences a rna- or dna virus that &apos;s not known , it calls the ministry of health and prevents a pandemic from its outbreak .
but now the biggest force that will lead us to a world of abundance .
i call them &quot; the next billion . &quot;
the white lines are for population .
we &apos;ve just crossed the 7-billion-dollar brand .
and by the way , the largest insurance against population explosion is a better education and nutrition in the world .
in 2010 , we had just connected to each other under two billion people online .
by 2020 , we &apos;re going to go from two billion to five billion internet users .
three billion new minds that we &apos;ve never heard about before will connect to global communication .
to this day , they are governed by a ritual priesthood , but the priesthood education is very extraordinary .
maybe an ancient understanding of the relationship between people and the mystery of creativity .
what do these people need ?
what are you going to consume ? what are you going to want ?
and instead of having economic gridlock , i see one of the largest economic impacts in history .
these people represent several trillion dollars that will flow into the global economy .
and they &apos;re going to be healthier by using the tricoder , and they &apos;re going to be better trained by the khan academy , and by being able to use 3d printers and infinite computing and so much more productive than ever before .
so what can three billion growing , healthy , educated , productive members of the human community bring us ?
what about a set of new , unheard voices before ?
what about giving the oppressed wherever you are , a voice to pay attention and create change for the first time ?
what are these three billion people going to bring ?
what about contributions that we can &apos;t even predict ?
maybe not .
one of the things that i learned from the x prize is that small teams who are motivated by passion and focus can create extraordinary things , things that big companies and governments could only create in the past .
i want to end with a story that really got me excited .
there &apos;s a program that some of you may know .
it &apos;s a game called foldit .
it was developed at the university of washington in seattle .
and it &apos;s a game in which people can take a sequence of amino acids to study how the protein will evolve .
and depending on its behavior , we can predict the structure and function .
and this is very important in medical research .
so far , this was a problem for supercomputers .
and this game was played by university professors and so on .
maybe we can &apos;t just eradicate the way we think about it from 500 years of rational humanism in an 18-minute talk .
and it &apos;s now hundreds of thousands of people who have played the game online .
and it showed that these days , human pattern recognition is better folding the proteins than the best supercomputers .
and when these people came and looked at who &apos;s the best protein folder in the world , this was not a mit professor , nor was a caltech student , it was somebody from england , manchester , a woman who worked as a assistant to the business manual in a rehab clinic , and at night was the best protein ordnor in the world .
ladies and gentlemen , what gives me enormous confidence in our future , is the fact that we have more power today than individuals to face the great challenges of our planet .
we have access to tools with exponential technology .
we have the passion of a diy innovator .
we have the techno-philanthropy capital .
and we have three billion new minds that we can work with online to master the new challenges , and to do what &apos;s needed .
we expect a couple of extraordinary decades .
thank you .
and there are certainly people in this audience who would report really legitimate scientific doubt about the idea of , fundamentally , feathers that people will follow and apply fatty magic to their projects and so on .
i think we need to do something about a changing piece of medical culture .
and i think it starts with a medical doctor , and that &apos;s me .
and maybe i &apos;ve been in business for a long time enough time , so that i can allow myself to give up a piece of my own false prestige to make this happen .
but before i get to the actual issue of my talk , let &apos;s start with a little baseball .
hey , why not ?
we &apos;re close to the season , and we &apos;re moving to the world cup .
we all love baseball , right ?
baseball is full of great statistics .
and there are hundreds of them .
&quot; moneyball &quot; appears soon , and it &apos;s about statistics , and to use it to make a great baseball team .
i &apos;m probably not going to be able to take all of you on this journey .
i &apos;m going to refer to a statistic that i hope most of you have heard of .
it &apos;s the average performance of the bat .
we &apos;re talking about a 300 when a bat beats 300 .
that means that the player is certainly beating three out of 10 strokes .
that is to put the ball in the field , it comes up , it &apos;s not caught , and who tried to throw the ball to the first base , didn &apos;t make it in time , and the runner was in safety .
three out of 10 .
you know what they call a 3,000 in major league baseball ?
well , really good , maybe an all-star .
you know what it &apos;s called a 4,00th ?
this is somebody who &apos;s probably hitting four out of 10 , by the way .
but the question i want to throw up is : why not ?
legendary -- like ted williams legendary -- the last major league baseball player who met over 400 times during a regular season .
let &apos;s move back to my medical world , where i feel a lot more comfortable , or maybe a little less comfortable , that i &apos;ve talked to you about .
suppose you have a blind darkness , and you &apos;re transferred to an operator whose average performance is 400 in terms of blindness .
somehow , it doesn &apos;t work , right ?
suppose you live in a particular remote area , and you have a beloved person with clogged heart disease , and your doctor refers that to a cardiologist whose average performance is in 200 .
but , you know what ?
it &apos;s much better this year . it &apos;s on the rising branch .
and she beat a 257 .
somehow , it doesn &apos;t work .
but i &apos;m going to ask you a question .
why not think about it that way ?
what do you believe like the average performance of a cardiologist or a nurse or an orthopedic , a birthday worker , should be a rescue assistant ?
1,000 , very good .
the truth is that nobody in all of medicine knows what a good surgeon or a doctor or a rescue assistant should be .
but what we do is we each of them , including me , send out to the world with the claim to be perfect .
never make a mistake , but nobody &apos;s thinking about the details of how this should be done .
and that &apos;s the message i took in medical school .
i was a obsessively obsessive student .
in high school , a student once said that brian goldman would learn for a blood test .
and it did .
and i learned in my little dive in the sisters residence at the toronto general hospital , far from here .
because it makes just as much sense as anything else i &apos;ve heard about when it comes to explaining the utterly insane capability of the creative process .
i memorized everything .
in my anatomic lecture , i learned the origins and the runners of every muscle , every branch of every artery that takes away from the aorta , obscure and common differential diagnosis .
i even knew the differential diagnosis to classify renal tubula azidose .
and all the time , i was collecting more and more knowledge .
and i was good , i finished with cum laude .
and i left medical school with the impression that if i knew everything and knew everything , or at least as close as possible , i was as possible that i was immune to making errors .
and it worked for a while , until i met a woman printer .
i was resistant to a teaching hospital here in toronto as a woman drucker , and i was brought to the emergency room department of the hospital .
at that point , i was referring to the cardiology layer in the cardiology service .
and it was my assignment when the emergency staff was looking for cardiology advice to study the emergency patient .
a process that -- as anyone who has ever tried to do something -- so in other words , everybody here -- doesn &apos;t always act reasonably .
and to give feedback to my doctor .
i looked at printer , and she was in respiratory .
and when i listened to her , she made cluttering sounds .
and when i was listening to her chest with the stethoscope , i could hear a cracking sound on both sides , which told me that she was suffering from congestive heart failure .
this is a state in which the heart is failing , instead of pumping all the blood , a part of the blood is stuck in the lung and filling it in the lungs , and that &apos;s why the shortcut came .
and this was not a difficult diagnosis to do .
i hired them , and i went to treatment .
i gave her aspirin . i gave her medicine to take the pressure of the heart .
i gave her medicine , which we call diuretics , a pill of water , so they leave out the liquid .
and over a period of one and a half to two hours , she started to feel better .
in fact , sometimes he can feel straight paranormal .
i felt really good .
and i made my first mistake ; i sent it home .
in fact , i made two mistakes .
i sent them home without talking to my doctor .
i didn &apos;t take the audience and do what i should have done , which would have been a phone call in my doctor to explain it with him , so that he would have had a chance to make his own image .
and he knew her , he would have been able to contribute additional information to her .
maybe i did it with good reason .
maybe i didn &apos;t want to be the assistant physician .
maybe i wanted to be so successful and so capable of taking responsibility that i was acting like this , and so i would be able to care for my patients without having to contact him .
my second mistake was worse .
the young acolyths are separated from their families at the age of three and four , and in a shadow world of finsternis , in stone huts at the base of the glacier for 18 years . two nightmares of each nine years , intentionally elected to mimic the nine months of pregnancy that they spent in the lap of their conductive mother , are now spending metamorphorically in the lap of the great mother &apos;s lap .
i had such an encounter recently when i met the extraordinary american poet ruth stone , who is now over 90 , but who was a poet all of her life , and she told me that when she was growing up in the village of virginia , she said she could feel and hear how a poem came to her on the landscape .
so that i sent them home , i missed a quiet voice in me , trying to tell me , &quot; goldman , not a good idea . don &apos;t do that . &quot;
in fact , i was so absent from self-security that i asked the nurse what was the woman who was taking care of printer , &quot; do you think it &apos;s okay when she goes home ? &quot;
and the nurse thought about it , and she said , in fact , &quot; yeah , i think she &apos;s going to be fine . &quot;
i remember it as if it was yesterday .
so i signed the abandon papers and a ambulance and a rescue assistant and brought them home .
and i went back to work .
the rest of the day , the evening , i had this nagging feeling in my stomach .
but i kept working .
and at the end of the day , i grabbed my stuff , i left the hospital , and i went to the parking lot to go home with the car when i did something that i didn &apos;t do otherwise .
i went through the emergency department on my way home .
she said it was like a thunderous train of air .
and there was another nurse saying , not the sister who had seen printer , but another three words to me , and those three words feared most emergency doctors i know .
other medical professionals are also afraid of this , but emergency care is particularly because we only see the patients so volatile .
the three words said , remember ?
&quot; do you remember the patients that you sent home ? &quot;
the nurse asked , safely .
&quot; so she &apos;s back , &quot; she said in this particular sound .
so she was back .
she was back and dying .
about an hour after she got home , after i sent her home , she collapsed , and the family called 911 , and the rescue assistants brought her back to the emergency room with a blood pressure of 50 , which is a dangerous shock state .
she hardly breathed , and she walked blue .
that would roll over the country to them .
the emergency staff dragged all the strands .
they gave her blood pressure increases .
they attached them to the ventilation machine .
i was shocked , and i was crushed into the inner .
and i lived through this rollercoaster because she came to the intensive care unit after the stabilization , and i hoped that she would recover .
and after two , three days , it realized that it would never be awakened again .
she had suffered an untreatable brain damage .
her family gathered together .
and over the course of the next eight or nine days , they came up with the shot .
on the day of the day , they listed them -- woman printer , a woman , a mother and grandmother .
she felt when it came , because it would bring the earth under her feet to the quake .
they say you don &apos;t forget the names of those who die .
and that was the first time i learned this myself .
for the next few weeks , i made the blueprints , and i learned for the first time , the unhealthy shame that exists in our medical culture -- i felt myself , isolated , not the kind of healthy shame that you feel , because you can &apos;t talk to the colleagues .
you all know the healthy shame , if you give a secret to the best friend &apos;s prize , even though that one &apos;s going to be caught up in the absence and then you get caught up and the best friend confronts you with it , and i have a horrible discussion , but if at the end , the bad conscience leads you , and you swear that you never make such a mistake again .
if you do recovery and never make the mistake again .
this is the kind of educational shame .
the unhealthy way i talk about it is the one that makes you sick in the first place .
it &apos;s the one who tells you that what you &apos;ve done is not what you &apos;ve done , but you &apos;re bad at yourself .
and that &apos;s what i felt .
and it wasn &apos;t because of my chief doctor , he was very dear .
she knew that she could only do one at that moment , and that was , in her words , running like the devil .
he was talking to the family , and i &apos;m sure that he was smoking the woods and making sure that i wasn &apos;t sued .
but i kept asking myself these questions .
why didn &apos;t i ask the doctor ? why did i send them home ?
and then in my worst moments , how could i make a stupid mistake ?
why did i go to medicine ?
slowly but surely it did .
i started to feel better .
and then on a cloudy day , there was a hole in the clouds , and the sun broke out , and maybe i said , &quot; i can feel better . &quot;
and i negotiated with myself that if i doubled my efforts to perfection and never made a mistake that the voice would be silent .
and she did .
she ran like the devil to the house while she was pursued by this poem , and it was all about her getting fast enough to a piece of paper and a pen , so that when she could catch it through her , she could catch it and hold it on the sheet .
and i kept working .
and then it happened again .
two years later , i had service in the emergency station in a communal hospital north of toronto , and i was looking at a 25-year-old man with a full revenge .
it was a lot going on , and i was in a hurry .
he always showed up here .
i looked in the rage , and it was a little bit pink .
and i gave him a prescription for penicillin and sent him away .
and even when he went out the door , he pointed at his rage .
two days later , i came to my next emergency service , and my boss doctor asked me to talk to her office .
and she said three words : do you remember ?
in other paintings , she wasn &apos;t fast enough . she ran and ran and ran , but she didn &apos;t reach the house , and the poem rolled through it , and she missed it . she said it would move across the country and , as she said , look for another poet .
&quot; do you remember the patient with the rigged revenge ? &quot;
it turns out he &apos;s infected with a streptococtious infection .
he had a potentially life-dangerous disease called epiglottitis .
you can google that , but it &apos;s not an infection of the rocket , but the upper breathing path , and it causes the locking of the breathing .
and fortunately , he didn &apos;t die .
he got intraveneous antibotica and recovered a few days later .
and i went back through the same torture of shame and self-doubt , felt free and went to work until it happened again and again and again .
in an emergency layer , i &apos;ve overlooked a blindness twice .
there &apos;s a lot of stuff going on , especially if you think that you &apos;re working in a hospital that had only 14 patients per night at that time .
in both cases , i didn &apos;t send them home , and i don &apos;t think there was a lack of treatment .
and then there were these moments -- i &apos;ll never forget the part -- she said that there were moments when she almost missed it .
one thought he had kidney stones .
i put on the x-ray of the kidney , and when that was without any evidence , my colleague , in the revision of the patient , found a hardening in the lower right sector , and called the operators .
the other one had strong diarrhea .
i ordered fluide to rehydrate him and asked my colleagues to look at him as well .
and he did , and when he found a hardening in the lower right sector , he called the operators .
in both cases , they were doing surgery , and they were doing fine .
both of these cases came to me , and they asked me .
and i would be happy to tell you that my worst mistakes happened only in the first five years , which many of my colleagues say , but total nonsense .
some of my blocks have happened in the last five years .
alone , damaged and without support .
so she runs to the house and looks for the paper , and the poem goes through her , and she reaches a pen just as it goes through her and then -- she said -- it was like taking her other hand and getting it packed .
here &apos;s the problem : if i can &apos;t close with my mistakes and talk about them , if i can tell the quiet voice that tells me what really can &apos;t happen , how can i share it with my colleagues ?
how can i teach you my mistakes so that they don &apos;t do the same ?
if i went to a room -- like right now , i have no idea what you &apos;re thinking about me .
when was the last time you heard about somebody who was talking about failing ?
oh yeah , they go to a cocktail party , and you like to hear about some other doctor , but you &apos;re not going to hear somebody talk about their own mistakes .
if i were to go into a room full of colleagues and ask for their immediate support and start telling them what i &apos;ve just told you , i would very likely not reach the end of the second story before it really unpleased you , anyone would put a joke in , they would change the topic and forget the rest .
and in fact , if i knew that an orthopedic tree in my hospital had taken off someone &apos;s wrong leg , believe me that i had problems looking into their eyes .
this is the system that we live in .
it &apos;s a completely denial of errors .
it &apos;s a system where there are two basic positions -- the ones that make mistakes and the ones that don &apos;t make them -- the ones that constrain sleeping deprivation and the ones that have no limitation , the bad outcomes and the good results .
she caught the poem on his tail and pulled it back into her body and took it back to the sheet of paper .
it &apos;s almost an ideological reaction like antibodies attacking a human being .
and there &apos;s the idea that if we put the people who make errors out of medicine , we will have a secure system .
but there are two problems with this .
in my 20-year medical sensation and journalism , i did a personal medical study on medical errors and false treatments to learn so much for me for one of my first articles that i wrote for the toronto star to my show , &quot; white coat , black art . &quot;
and what i learned is that errors are absolutely inadequate .
we &apos;re working in a system where errors happen every day , where one in 10 medications is either a false or wrong dosage , where hospital infections are always going to be more and more numerous and cause devastation or dead .
in this state , about 24,000 canadians die of dedicated errors .
in the united states , the institute of medicine decides the number of 100,000 .
both of these are strong understatements , because we don &apos;t look at the problem as much as we should .
and this is the crux .
and all this time , they are culturally introduced into the values of their society , values that sustain the claim that their prayers and only their prayers , the cosmic -- or we might say the ecological -- will sustain balance .
in these opportunities , the poem came in , and intact on paper -- but backwards -- from the last word to the first .
in a hospital system where the medical knowledge doubles every two to three years , we can &apos;t keep up .
sleep deprivation is ubiquitous .
we can &apos;t get rid of it .
we have a cognitive error , so that we can take a perfect disease course for a breast pain patient .
and then i take the same patient with a chest pain , and i sweat it and i give it a little bit of alcoholized breath , and all of a sudden the story is enforced with contempt .
i don &apos;t take the same course .
i &apos;m not a robot ; i don &apos;t always do things the same .
and my patients are not cars ; they don &apos;t always tell me their symptoms in the same way .
all of these things are inevitable mistakes .
so if you take the system the way i was taught to do it , and you do all the error health experts , there &apos;s no one left at the end .
and when i heard that , i thought that was kind of creepy -- that &apos;s exactly how my creative process is going on .
and do you know the body of people who don &apos;t want to talk about their worst cases ?
in my show , &quot; white coat , black artartwork , &quot; i have the habit of saying , &quot; this is my worst mistake , &quot; i would say to everyone from the rescue assistant to the boss of the cardiologists , &quot; this is my worst mistake , &quot; blah , blah , blah , blah , blah , &quot; what about yours ? &quot; and then i &apos;ll show with the microphone to him .
and then their pupils expand , they came in front of their head , then they look down , and they swallow hard , and they start to tell their stories .
they want to tell their stories . they want to share their stories .
they want to be able to say , &quot; look , don &apos;t make the same mistakes that i made . &quot;
what they need is an environment that will put them in place .
what you need is a new medical culture .
and it starts with a doctor .
the redefined physician is a human being , white for his humanity , accepts her , is not proud to make mistakes , but it &apos;s all about learning something out of her so that it can be passed on .
she shares her experiences with others .
it &apos;s not like my creative process at all -- i &apos;m not the channel !
it supports other people talking about their mistakes .
and she shows others their mistakes , not to just make them , but in a loving , supportive way , so that all of them benefit .
and it works in a medical culture that recognizes that people fill the system with life , and if that &apos;s true , people make mistakes from time to time .
so that the system is developing to create backups , which make it easier to find errors , make people inevitable , and also enable to create loving , supportive spaces where anyone who &apos;s watching health care can actually address things that are potential errors and even rewarded for them , and especially for people like me who should make mistakes and be rewarded for the gratification of them .
my name is brian goldman .
i &apos;m the redefined doctor .
i &apos;m a human . i make mistakes .
but i regret that , but i &apos;m trying to learn best that i can to pass it on to others .
i don &apos;t know what you think of me , but i can live with that .
let me close with three of my own words : i remember .
i &apos;m a masonry . in order to work , i have to stand up every day at the same time and sweat , struggle and really uncomfortable .
i &apos;m going to talk about a tiny , little idea .
it &apos;s about transformative standards .
and because you can explain this idea in a minute , i &apos;m going to tell you three stories before to use time .
the first story is about charles darwin , one of my heroes .
you know , he was here in 1835 .
you might think he was hunting fins , but that &apos;s not true .
he actually collected fish .
he described one of them as very common .
it was a grouper .
until the 1980s , it was fished in a big way .
but even i &apos;ve been in my masonry art , sometimes , this thing has crawled .
now it &apos;s on the red list of endangered species .
we &apos;ve heard this story many times from the galapagos islands , or other places , and it &apos;s not very special .
yet , we &apos;re still getting to the galapagos .
we still think they &apos;re primal .
the brochures still describe them as pristine .
what happened here ?
the second story is to illustrate a different concept , which is changing wells .
because i experienced it when i studied a lagoon in west africa in 1971 .
i went there because i grew up in europe and i wanted to work in africa later .
i thought i could integrate .
and i guess many of you have done that too .
and i got a bad sunburn , and i was convinced that i really didn &apos;t come from there .
it was my first sunburn .
as you can see , the lagoon was surrounded by palms and by some mangroves .
there were buntbarks of about 20 inches , black-and-white brothers , a kind of buntbarian .
the fisheries of these barrels were very productive , and the fishermen lived well and earned well in ghana on average .
when i returned 27 years later , the fish had shrunk to half its size .
they &apos;re growing five centimeters .
they had been genetically pressed .
it was still fish .
people were still happy .
even i had work or ideas that came from a source of me that i really can &apos;t identify .
and the fish was also lucky to be there .
so it hasn &apos;t changed , and yet everything has changed .
my third little story tells me about my co-creation at the introduction of trawling net fisheries in southeast asia .
in the &apos; 70s , rather in the early &apos; 60s , europe promoted a lot of development projects .
fisheries promoted countries that started already 100,000 fish , the industrial fishing of this pretty ugly ship called mutiara 4 .
i went to it , and we made papers all over the southern south chinese ocean and in particular in the javasee .
we didn &apos;t have words for what we caught there .
i now know that it was the reason for the ocean .
90 percent of our start was sponges , other animals that are connected to the reason .
most of the fish , the little dots there on the rubber , the rubber pile , were coral reef fish .
what is this thing ?
basically , the bottom of the ocean came to deck , and then it was thrown back .
these pictures are extraordinary because the transition is going very fast .
within a year , you do a survey , and then you start with the commercial fishing .
the reason is going to change . in this case , a hard reason or soft corals are going to be a mist .
this is a dead turtle .
they were not eaten ; they were thrown away because they were dead .
one time , we caught a life .
she wasn &apos;t drowned yet .
then they wanted to kill them , because you could eat them well .
in fact , this mountain of debris is is accumulated by fishermen every time they go into areas where they &apos;ve never been fished .
and how do we relate to it without losing our minds , but to keep us on the contrary to mental health ?
but it &apos;s not documented .
we change the world , but we don &apos;t remember it .
we adapt our normal values to the new level , and we don &apos;t remember what was there .
here &apos;s what happens when you generalize it .
on the y-axis , there are some good things : biodiversity , number of orca , the green of your country , the water supply .
it &apos;s changing over time . it &apos;s changing , because for people , their actions are completely natural .
every generation looks at the images that you take in the beginning of your conscious life as a standard and will derive everything from it .
the difference then is perceived as a loss .
but they don &apos;t notice the previous losses .
there can be a sequence of changes .
for me , the best living example of how you can do this is the musician tom waits . i was allowed to interview him for a magazine a few years ago .
and at the end , they just want to get the inheritable remains .
that &apos;s our goal now , most of the time .
we want to get things that are gone or things that are no longer the way they were .
now you might think that the problem was to look at people who certainly , when they lived in predatory societies , killed animals , and who only became aware of a few generations of what they had done .
because obviously , an animal that was very common is rarely even before it dies out .
so you don &apos;t lose a lot of animals .
you &apos;re always losing rare animals .
and that &apos;s why it &apos;s not perceived as a huge loss .
over time , we &apos;re focusing on the big animals , and in the sea , these are the big fish .
they get less likely to be because we catch them .
at the end of this amazing initiation , one day , they &apos;re suddenly taken out and for the first time in their lives , at the age of 18 , they see a sunrise . and in this crystal moment of consciousness of the first light , when the sun begins to shine on the hands of the amazingly beautiful landscape , suddenly everything that they &apos;ve learned in abstract practice is confirmed . and the priest comes back and says , &quot; you see ? it &apos;s really how i told you .
we talked about this issue . and you know what ? most of his life , tom was the embodiment of the embarrassed modern artist who tried to dominate these uncontrollable creative impulses that lived in him , and to deal with them .
over time , there &apos;s little fish left , and we think that &apos;s the normal value .
the question is , why do people accept this ?
well , because they don &apos;t know it was different .
of course , many people , scientists , will confirm that it was really different .
they will confirm it , because the evidence of how they used to be in an earlier form is not the way they would like to demonstrate the evidence .
there &apos;s an anecdote , for example , that the report of a chapter like this , who was watching big fish in this area , can &apos;t be used , or fisheries scientists are not usually used , because it &apos;s not &quot; scientific . &quot;
so we have the situation that people don &apos;t know the past , even though we live in educated societies , because they don &apos;t trust the sources of the past .
this shows the enormous role that a marine reserve can play .
because we &apos;re basically restoring the past through marine protected areas .
we restore the past that people can &apos;t grasp because the normal values have changed and are very low .
but then he got older and quieter . he told me that he was driving on a highway in los angeles one day , and it all changed for him .
so the people who see a marine protected area can benefit from the insight that allows them to restore their normal values .
what about the people who don &apos;t do that , because they don &apos;t have access -- the people in the midwest , for example ?
here , i think , the art and the film may fill the gap , and simulations .
this is the simulation of chesapeake bay .
a long time ago , there were gray whales -- 500 years ago .
and the colors and the shades , you might remember &quot; avatar . &quot;
when you think about &quot; avatar , &quot; when you think about why people were so touched by it -- except for the pocahoneyman story , why were they so touched by the image world ?
because it &apos;s a little bit of a wax that &apos;s been lost in a way .
so my recommendation , the only one i &apos;m going to give , is on cameron , so that he spins &quot; avatar ii &quot; underwater .
thank you .
he went at high speed when he suddenly hears a little fragment of a tune , which is often , like inspiration , for him , hardly tangible . and he wants to have it . she &apos;s gorgeous . he &apos;s letting it go , but he can &apos;t touch it .
in the &apos; 80s , in communist eastern germany , if you had a typewriter , you had to register it in the government .
they also had to register a leaf of precedent from this typewriter .
the reason : the government could track back where a text came from .
found an article with false thought , you could detect the creator of these thoughts .
and we couldn &apos;t understand in the west how anyone could do this , and how much that would constrain the freedom of speech .
in our own countries , we would never do that .
but if today , in 2011 , you buy a new color laser printer from the leading laser printer manufacturers and print out a page , this page has printed bright yellow blobs on every page in a pattern that clearly tracks the page to you and tracks your printer .
this is what happens to us today .
and nobody seems to be raining about that .
and this was an example of how our own governments are using the technology against us , the citizens .
he doesn &apos;t have a piece of paper , he doesn &apos;t have a pen , he doesn &apos;t have a cassette record .
and this is one of the three main sources of today &apos;s existing online problems .
let &apos;s see what really happens in the world : we can split the attacks into categories .
we have three main groups .
there are online criminals .
for example , here , this is mr. dimitry golubow from kiew in ukraine .
and the motives of online criminals are very easy to understand .
these people make money .
they use online attacks to make a lot of money , a huge amount of money .
there are several known cases of online millionaires , multimillionaires that made their money through attacks .
this is wladimir tsastsin from tartu in estonia .
so it starts to climb this old climb in it , like i &apos;m going to lose this thing , and i &apos;m going to be tracked by this song forever .
this is alfred gonzalez .
stephen watt .
stock market sundin .
these are matthew anderson , tariq al-daour and so on and so forth .
these people have come to wealth online , but they &apos;ve acquired it by using trojans to steal money from our bank accounts while we &apos;re doing our online banking , or keyloggers , who have collected our credit card information in the input about the keyboard , while we &apos;re buying over an infected computer online .
the u.s. intelligence agency fror , two months ago , was the swiss account of mr. sam jain , and in this account , 14.9 million dollars was frozen when it was frozen .
mr. jain himself is on the open foot , the place is unknown .
and what i &apos;m saying today is that we are more likely to be victims of an online crime than a crime in the real world .
and it &apos;s very obvious that this is going to get worse .
in the future , most crime is going to be online .
i &apos;m not good enough , i &apos;m not able to do it .
the second largest attack group that we see today is not motivated by money .
they &apos;re motivated by something else -- protests , for example , an opinion , or by their audience .
groups like anonymous have gone up over the last 12 months and become one of the main players in the field of the attacks online .
so these are the three main attacks : criminals who do it for money , hackactivists like anonymous , who do it resistance , but the last group are nations , governments who run the attacks .
that &apos;s where we have cases , like diginotar .
it shows you what happens when governments attack their own citizens .
diginotar is a complete netherlands certificate -- or was that .
last fall , it had to sign in insolvenz , because diginotar had been hacked .
somebody had broken in and hacked the system thoroughly .
and last week in a dutch government meeting , i asked one of the leaders of this group the question of whether he was able to do it because of the diginotar hack people had died .
but instead of getting into panic , he just stopped .
and his answer was yes .
now , how do people die in the wake of such a hack ?
diginotar is a certification site .
they sell certificates .
what do you do with certificates ?
now , a certificate , if you have a website with http , with ssl encrypted services , for example , gmail .
now , we all use , or many of us , gmail or one of their competitors , but these services are particularly distributed in totalitarian states like iran , where dissidents use foreign providers like gmail , because they know that they can trust them more than local providers , and that they &apos;re encrypted over ssl connections , so that local government can &apos;t sniff around in their conversation .
but you can do it if you go to a foreign .
certification agencies hacking and issuing fake certificates .
and that &apos;s what happened in the case of diginotar .
he finished the whole thought , and he did something completely new .
how about the arab spring and the things that happened in egypt , for example ?
now , in egypt , the insurgency in april of 2011 was the headquarters of egyptian intelligence police , and they found a lot of records .
in these records , there was a folder called finfisher .
and in this folder , a notation of a local company in germany , who had sold a few programs to the egyptian government that they could catch -- in a very large scale -- any communication of egyptian citizens .
they had sold this program for 280,000 euros to the egyptian government .
the company headquarters is right here .
so western governments provide totalitarian governments with tools to make them go against their own citizens .
but western governments also help themselves .
for example , in germany , just a few weeks ago , the so-called state strojans found , and this was a trojan that was used by german government officials to play their own citizens .
if you &apos;re suspected in a criminal case , you &apos;re going to tap your phone with a lot of security .
he just looked in the sky and said , &quot; excuse me , can you see i &apos;m driving ? &quot;
but today we are far beyond that .
they tap into their internet connection .
they use tools like the state strojans to play their computer with a trojan that allows them to monitor their entire communication , to listen to their online discussions , to collect their passwords .
so if we keep thinking about things like this , people &apos;s obvious answer would be , &quot; ok , that sounds bad , but it doesn &apos;t matter to me because i &apos;m a good citizen .
i don &apos;t have to worry .
i have nothing to hide . &quot;
and this argument doesn &apos;t make sense .
privacy must be given .
privacy is not the debate .
it &apos;s not a choice between privacy and security .
i look like i could just write down a song ?
it &apos;s a choice between freedom and control .
and while today , in 2011 , we may trust our governments , every right we abandon is forever abandoned .
and do we trust , do we trust blindfold to every future government , a government that we might have in 50 years ?
these are the questions that we have to deal with for the next 50 years .
it may seem odd to you , but i &apos;m a big fan of concrete blocks .
the first concrete blocks were made in 1868 , and they came up with a simple idea : module from cement with fixed measures that fit together .
concrete building blocks became the most used building unit in the world very quickly .
they gave us the ability to build things that were bigger than us , buildings , bridges , one stone at a time .
basically , the concrete building block had become the building block of our time .
almost a hundred years later , in 1947 , lego came out with this .
it &apos;s so wonderful . you have to protect it . &quot;
if you really want to exist , come back to a cheaper moment , if i can take care of you .
it was called the automatically connecting rock .
and within a few years , lego moved into every household .
it &apos;s estimated that over 400 billion stones were produced -- or 75 stones for every person on the planet .
they don &apos;t have to be an engineer to create beautiful houses , beautiful bridges or beautiful buildings .
lego made it possible for everyone .
lego basically took the concrete building block , the building block of the world , and made it a building block for our imagination .
in the meantime , in the same year , bell labs was announced the next revolution , the next building block .
the transistor was a little plastic unit that would take us from a world of static , stacked up tiles to a world where everything was interactive .
like the concrete block , the transistor allows us to build much larger , more complex circles , one stone at a time .
but there &apos;s a key difference : the transistor was just for experts .
if not , squawks somebody else today .
personally , i don &apos;t accept that the building block of our time is reserved for experts , and so i decided to change that .
eight years ago , i was at the media lab , and i started to explore this idea of how to put the power of engineers in the hands of artists and designers .
a few years ago , i started to develop littlebits .
let me show you how they work .
littlebits are electronic modules that have a specific function .
they &apos;re prefabricated to be light , sound , engine and sensor .
and the best part is that they connect with magnets .
they can &apos;t put them together wrong .
the stones are color-coded .
green is output , blue is electricity , pink is input , and orange is wires .
go and squawk leonard cohen .
so all you have to do is connect a blue and a green one , and you can build bigger circles very quickly .
you add a blue to a green one , and you can make light .
you can put a switch in between , and so you made a little dimmer .
take the switch out to put in a pulsmodule , which is here , and you made a little blinker .
add this buzzer to an additional effect , and they made a noise machine .
i &apos;m going to stop that .
beyond the simple game , littlebits is actually quite powerful .
instead of having to program , wired or dissolved , littlebits allows them to program with simple , intuitive gestures .
so to accelerate or slow down the blink , just turn that button , and it makes the impulse faster or slower .
the idea behind littlebits is that it &apos;s a growing library .
his whole process of work has changed after that .
we want to bring every single interaction in the world into a used stone .
lights , sound , solar elements , motors -- everything should be available .
we &apos;ve distributed littlebits to children , and we &apos;ve seen them play with it .
and it was an incredible experience .
the most beautiful thing is , how do you start to understand the electronics that you &apos;re doing in your everyday life and that you don &apos;t learn in school ?
for example , how a nightlight works , or why the doors of the elevator are open , or how an ipod responds to touch .
we also brought littlebits to design schools .
so we had designers with no experience whatsoever in electronic things that started playing with littlebits as a material .
here we see , with filce , paper and water bottles , like geordie ...
a couple of weeks ago , we brought littlebits to risd , and we gave them some designers who had no technical experience whatsoever -- just cardboard , wood and paper -- and told them , &quot; do something . &quot;
not the work itself . it was still as dark as ever .
here &apos;s an example of a project that they did , a movement controlled confetti-cannon .
but wait , this is really my favorite project .
it &apos;s a play-doh hummer who &apos;s afraid of darkness .
for this non-engineer , littlebits became another material , electronics just became another material .
and we want to make this material available for everyone .
so littlebits is open source .
you can go to the website , download all the design services and make them yourself .
we want to encourage the world of the creators , the inventors , the contributors , because this world we live in , this interactive world , belongs to us .
so , go ahead and start inventing them .
thank you .
but the process and the heavy adhesive that surrounds it was lifted up when he took the genius out , where he didn &apos;t do anything as a trouble , and left it to where he sort of came from , and he realized that it didn &apos;t have to be an internal , agonizing thing .
there could be an actual , wonderful , bizarre collaboration , a kind of conversation between tom and the foreign , external thing that was not quite tom .
when i heard this story , it also changed a little bit the way i worked and it rescued me .
this idea rescued me when i was in the middle of the writing process of michael eat , pray , love , and i fell into one of these bars of doubt that we all fall into when we work on something and it doesn &apos;t work . you start to think it &apos;s going to be a disaster . this is going to be the worst book ever written .
not just bad , but the worst of all time .
they call themselves the older brothers and say that we , the younger brothers , are responsible for the destruction of the world .
i started to think i should just come up with the project .
but then i remembered how tom talked in the free sky , and i tried .
so i took my view of the manuscript , and i spoke my comment towards a blank corner of space .
i spoke out loud : listen , you know , you know , you know , you know , if this book is not brilliant , it &apos;s not completely my fault , right ?
because you can see that i &apos;m investing everything i have . i don &apos;t have more than that .
so if you want to have it better , you have to cross here and maintain your proportion of the deal .
okay . but if you don &apos;t do that , you know what , then the hell with it .
i &apos;m going to keep writing , because that &apos;s my job .
and i want to leave you with the protocol that i was here today for my part of the job .
because ... at the end of it , it &apos;s like this . centuries ago , in the deserts of north africa , people were gathered to monthly , with sacred dances and music that were held out for hours -- to the dawn .
now this level of intuition becomes very important .
these fests were always great , because the dancers were professional , and they were fantastic .
but every once in a while , very rarely , something special happened . one of the performers actually became oversecular .
and i know you know what i mean , because i know you &apos;ve all seen a performance like this in your life .
it was like time was standing still , and the dancer was walking through a kind of pforte , and he did nothing other than he had ever done before -- 1,000 nights before , but it all came together .
and all of a sudden , he no longer seemed completely human .
it was lit up from the inside and lit from the bottom , and everything was illuminating through a divine fire .
when something like this happened , people knew what it was . they called it on his name .
they put their hands together , and they started singing , like , allah , allah , allah , god , god , god .
that &apos;s god , you know ?
interesting historical footnote : when the moses were conquering south spain , they brought this practice , and the language changed over the centuries of michael allah , allah , allah , allah , olé , olé , that you still hear in the fight and flamenco dances .
every time we think of innate and landscape , we either conjure up rousseau and the old framework of the noblen wild , which is a racial thought in its simplification , or , on the other hand , thoreau and say , these people are more connected to nature than we are .
if a performer in spain has done something impossible , something magical : michael allah , olé , olé , allah , great , bravo , this is it : a glimpse of god .
and that &apos;s great because we need that .
but , the tricky part follows the next morning , when the dancer himself wakes up and realizes that it &apos;s 11 o &apos;clock on a tuesday -- and he &apos;s no longer carrying a fifth of god .
he &apos;s just an aging mortal with painful knees , and maybe he &apos;ll never go up to those heights again .
and maybe no one will ever call god &apos;s name when they turn , but what should they do with the rest of their life ?
that &apos;s hard .
this is one of the most painful corrections of a creative life .
but maybe it doesn &apos;t have to be so full of pure if you didn &apos;t believe in the first place that the most extraordinary aspects of your existence came from you .
if you may only believe that you &apos;re a loan -- from a unimaginable source for a reader time of your life that &apos;s passed on to someone else when you &apos;re done with it .
when we start thinking about it that way , it changes everything .
so , indigenous people are not sentimental , nor are they being swallowed by the nostalgia .
so i started to think , and so i think , surely in the past few months , while i was working on the book that &apos;s going to seem soon -- as the dangerous , scary , strongly anticipated successes of my triggered success .
what i have to say to myself all the time when i get crazy about it is , don &apos;t worry .
don &apos;t be discouraged .
just do your job .
continue to be there for your contribution , whatever he wants to be .
if your job is dancing , dance .
if the dumb divine genius that &apos;s put aside to you , for a moment , will determine a smoke of wonder through your effort , it will be michael !
and if not , dance .
and michael olé ! in spite of all this .
i believe in it , and i feel that we should teach it .
there &apos;s not a lot of room for this in the malarial swamps of asmat or the cold winds of tibet , but they still , through time and ritual , have shaped a mysterious nimbus of the earth , which is not based on the idea of being aware of it , but on a far more subtle intuition , the idea that the earth can only exist because it is embedded in human consciousness .
michael olé ! in spite of all of this , just for having the mere human love and self-sense of being there .
thank you .
thank you .
olé !
last year , i showed these two slides to illustrate that the arctic ice caps , which for nearly three million years , had the size of the bottom 48 states shrunk by 40 percent .
but it doesn &apos;t really express the seriousness of this particular problem , because it doesn &apos;t show the thickness of the ice .
in a sense , the arctic ice caps is the beating heart of our global climate system .
it grows in the winter and shrinks in the summer .
the next slide i &apos;m going to show you is a time-lapse picture of what &apos;s happened in the last 25 years .
the permanent ice is marked with red .
now , what does that mean ?
as you can see , it grows on the dark blue , this is the annual ice in the winter , and it shrinks in the summer .
the so-called persistence ice , five years old or older , is almost like blood flowing out of the body here .
in 25 years , it will be gone from here to here .
this is a problem because global warming is going to save the frozen reason around the arctic ocean , where there are huge amounts of frozen carbon , which , when it &apos;s digested , is being implemented from microbes to methane .
compared to the entire amount of climate change materials in the atmosphere , this amount could double when we cross this critical point .
already today , in some flat lakes in alaska methane itself , in the water .
professor katey walter at university in alaska has traveled to another flat lake in the last winter .
wow !
you &apos;re fine . the question is , how will we get .
and one reason is that this enormous heat storage is heating greenland from the north .
it means that a little kid from the andean who grows up in the belief that the mountain is an apu-mind who is , or determines your destiny , will become a completely different person , and will have a different relationship with this resource or this place , as a little child from montana , who grows up in the belief that a mountain is a bunch of rocks that can be rejected .
this is an annual diving river .
but volume is much bigger than ever before .
this is the cangerlussuaq river in southwest greenland .
if you want to know how the sea level is going through the land ice sheet is going up here , it &apos;s going to the sea .
these rivers are rapidly adding .
at the other end of the planet , antarctica , the largest ice mass on the planet .
last month , researchers reported that the entire continent now has a negative ice footprint .
and the west antarctica , which has shown up over a few underwater islands , is particularly strong in melting .
this corresponds to 20 feet of sea level , like greenland .
in the himalayas , the third largest ice mass , you see new lakes that were glaciers a few years ago .
whether it &apos;s a locust of a mind or a pile of ertia , it &apos;s irrelevant .
40 percent of all the people in the world get half of their drinking water from this melting water .
in the andes , this glacier is the drinking water source for this city .
the water quantities have expanded .
but when you seal , most of the drinking water will fall away .
in california , a 40 percent reduction in the snow ceiling of the sierra .
this is the memory basin .
and the predictions of how you read them are serious .
this expulsion in the world leads to a dramatic increase in fire .
and the catastrophes all over the world have been in a really extraordinary and unprecedented extent .
four times as many in the last 30 years as the previous 75 .
the interesting thing is the metaphor that defines the relationship between the individual and the nature .
this is a completely unsustainable development pattern .
if you look at this in the historical context , you can see what it &apos;s doing .
in the last five years , we &apos;ve produced 70 million tons of co2 every 24 hours -- 25 million tons a day into the oceans .
take a look at the realm of the eastern pacific , from the american continent west and beyond the indian subcontinent , where there &apos;s a dramatic decline in oxygen in the ocean .
the biggest single factor for global warming , besides deforestation , which is 20 percent , is burning fossil fuels .
oil is a problem , and coal is the biggest problem .
the united states is one of the two largest pollutants , along with china .
and the proposal was to build a lot of other coal factories .
but we &apos;re starting to see a change .
here are the ones that have been argued in the last few years , with some green alternatives that have been proposed .
i grew up in the forests of british colombia , and i believed that these forests were there to be bathed .
there &apos;s a political argument in our country .
and the coal industries and oil industries have spent a quarter billion dollars last year trying to promote clean coal , which is a contradiction .
this picture reminded me of something .
around christmas , at my home in tennessee , a billion tons of coal .
you may have seen it in the news .
this is the second largest waste flow in america in our entire country .
this happened around christmas .
one of the commercials of the coal industry around christmas was this .
carbon man &apos;s frosty , happy guy .
it &apos;s in skin and abundance in america , and it helps our economy grow .
that made me a different person than my friends under the kwakiutl , who believe that these forests are the deposit of hukuk and the curved sky beaks and the cannibalic spirits that live in the northerners of the world , spirits that they would participate in their hamasa-initiation .
frosty , carbon man is going to clean every day .
it &apos;s affordable and it &apos;s worth caring about , and workers stay in wage and bread .
this is the source of most of the coal in west virginia .
the most powerful miner is the head of massey coal .
let me say one thing very clearly . al gore , nancy pelosi , harry reid , you don &apos;t know what you &apos;re talking about .
so the alliance for climate protection has started two campaigns .
this is one , a part of her .
at coalergy , we see climate change as a serious threat to our business .
that &apos;s why we set it to the top line , to spend a huge amount of money on the way to an advertising , to bring the truth of coal .
in fact , coal is not dirty .
now , if you start to look at the idea that these cultures can create different realities , you can understand some of their extraordinary discoveries , like this plant here .
we think it &apos;s clean -- and it also smells good .
so , don &apos;t worry about climate change .
let &apos;s keep it quiet .
clean coal , you &apos;ve heard a lot about it .
so let &apos;s make a tour of this modern , clean coal factory .
fantastic ! this machine is pretty loud .
but it &apos;s the sound of clean coal technology .
and yet , burning coal is one of the main reasons for global warming , the remarkably clean coal technology that you see here , changes everything .
look at it carefully , this is the clean , clean coal technology today .
finally , the positive alternative is mixing with our economic challenge and our national security challenge .
all of these people teach us that there are other ways of being , different ways of thinking , different ways of orienting the earth .
it &apos;s a photograph i just took last april in the northwest of the amazon .
america is in a crisis , the economy , the national security , the climate crisis .
the red thread that connects them all is our dependence on carbon-based fuels like dirty coal and foreign oil .
but now there &apos;s a bold , new solution to unleash us from this miserable situation .
you can restore america with 100 percent clean electricity in the next 10 years .
a plan of bringing america back to work , making us safer and helping stop global warming .
finally , a solution that &apos;s big enough to solve our problems .
re-nurture america . find out more .
this is the last one .
it &apos;s about a new supply of america .
one of the fastest ways of reducing our dependence on old , dirty fuels that suffer our world .
this is ayahuasca , who many of you have heard about , the strongest psychoactive preparate from the shame repertoire .
the future is here . wind , sun and a new energy system .
new investments to create well-paid jobs .
re-nurturing america . it &apos;s time to accept reality .
there &apos;s an old african saying : &quot; if you want to be fast , go alone .
if you want to get far , go together . &quot;
we have to get far , fast .
thank you .
i want to start by asking you to think back to the time you were a kid , when you were playing with building blocks .
as they realized how to reach out and reach out and grab the blades and move , they actually learned how to think and solve problems through understanding and changing spatial coherence .
spatial thinking is deeply connected to how we understand a lot of our environment .
as a computer scientist -- inspired by the kind of interaction with real objects -- along with my expert , patti and my colleague jeevan kalanithi , i began to wonder : what if we could use computers , which , instead of a mouse cursor , which moves like a digital fingertip on a flat surface of work ... what if we could intervene with both hands and physically grasp data and arrange it the way we want it ?
this question was so profound that we decided to explore the answer and evolved siftables .
in short , a siftable is an interactive computer the size of a cookie .
they can be moved by hand , they can perceive each other , they can capture their movements , and they have a screen and a radio receiver .
and more importantly , they &apos;re physical , so you can move them like building blocks just by extending your hands and access .
and the siftables are an example of a new generation of tools to manipulate digital data .
and if these tools become more physical and develop a conscious mind for their movements , recognize each other , and perceive the intricacies of our process with them , then we can begin to explore new and entertaining interactions .
i &apos;m going to start with some simple examples .
this siftable is configuring for the video , and when i tip it in one direction , the video is played forward ; when i kick it in the other direction , it &apos;s going to go backwards .
and these interactive portraits are perceiving each other .
this plant contains some very strong tryptamins that are very similar to the serotonin , dimethyltrypin 5 and methoxydimeter tryptamin .
so if i put them next to each other , that &apos;s what interests them .
if you &apos;re surrounded by one , you &apos;ll notice that , and you can get a little nervous .
and they also feel their movements and their tendency .
an interesting consequence of the interactions that we started to see was that we could apply everyday gestures to data , like pouring colors in the way that you do with fluids .
in this case , we configured three siftables as color pots , and i can use them to pour paint in the middle , where they are then mixed .
if we exaggerate it , we can shoot back a little .
there are also some nice opportunities in education like languages , math or logic games , where we give people the possibility of fast trial and see the results immediately .
here i am -- this is a fibonacci series that i make with a simple equality program .
this is a game with words that is a kind of mixture of scrabble and boggle .
basically , you get every round on every siftable randomly assigned letter , and as you try to make words , they &apos;re tested over a dictionary .
if you &apos;ve seen the yanomomi snoring this stuff , this substance that they make from different species also contains methoxydimetric tamin .
then , after about 30 seconds , you get remixed , and you have a new combination of letters and new possibilities .
thank you .
these are some kids who came to the media lab on a trip , and i was able to get them to try it out and take a video of it .
they really loved it .
one interesting thing about these kinds of applications is that you don &apos;t have to give people a lot of instructions .
all you have to say is &quot; form words , &quot; and they know exactly what to do .
here &apos;s another couple of people who are testing it .
this is our youngest beta-tester down there on the lower right .
it turns out he just wanted to stack the siftables .
so for him , they were just building blocks .
to sniff this powder is kind of like being shot out of a rifle of guns , being saturated by baroque paintings and the landing on a sea of electricity .
this is an interactive animation .
we wanted to develop a tool for language learners .
this is felix .
he can bring new characters into the scene by lifting up the siftable from the table that shows this character .
here he &apos;s going to let the sun go .
the sun goes up .
now he &apos;s going to bring a tractor into the scene .
the orange tractor .
good work ! yeah !
by shaking the siftables and putting them next to each other , he can make the characters interact ...
it &apos;s not created as a distortion of reality , but the resolution of reality .
... invent his own story .
hello !
it &apos;s a story with the open end , and it can decide how it evolves .
flying cat .
the last example that i have time to show you today is a music sequencer for live performances that we have recently developed and operate in the siftables as sound , like leadership , bass and drums .
each has four different variations ; you can choose which one you want to use .
and you can put that sound into the sequence that you can put in any pattern .
and you eat them up by just holding a ton siftable to a sequence .
there are effects that you can change live , like reverberation and filters .
you connect it to a particular sound and then you tend to hire it .
i even discussed it with my professor , richard evan shultes , the man who introduced the psychedelic erea with the discovery of the magical mushrooms in mexico in the 300s , and i argued that you couldn &apos;t put these tryptamins in as hallucinogens , because the moment you feel the effects , you &apos;re not there to experience a hallucination .
and then over-ordered effects like speed and volume , which you apply to the whole sequence .
so let &apos;s see .
we &apos;re starting to put the leadership voice in two sequencing siftable and put it in a row , expand it and add a little bit more of the voice .
now i &apos;m adding a bass .
now i &apos;m going to do some more drums on this .
and now i &apos;m connecting the filter to the drummer so that i can control the effect live .
i can accelerate the whole sequence by kicking the pace in one direction or another .
and now i &apos;m going to connect the filter to the barrel , for a little more expression .
i can make the sequence as it &apos;s going around .
so i don &apos;t have to plan them in advance , but i can improvise them ; i can stretch them or shorter them .
but the thing about tryptamins is that they can &apos;t be taken orally , because , of course , through a human intestine enzyme called monoamine oxidase , they &apos;re denatured .
and finally , i can shut out the whole sequence by bending the volume of sound siftable to the left .
thank you .
so as you can see , my enthusiasm is to develop new human-computer interfaces that fit better with how our brains and bodies work .
and today , i had time to show you some of this new design world and some of the possibilities of what we &apos;re working on in our lab .
the idea that i want to leave you with is that we are at the threshold of this new generation of values to interact with digital media , bringing information into our world that corresponds to our demands .
thank you .
i &apos;m looking forward to talking to all of you .
yeah , good afternoon .
i &apos;m glad i &apos;m there .
yeah , so what should biohacking be ?
they can only be taken in relation to a few other chemicals that are ordered by the mao .
i have to do a little bit of this , and that is biohacking is just about modern molecular biology .
i study molecular biology , and i &apos;ve been working on biohacking for a couple of years now , and that &apos;s what i started because i just wanted to know more about it , and i wanted to do it on my own , which i &apos;ve learned theoretically in the study .
so , that was my primary motivation .
so it was a curiosity , and i wanted to sort of get closer to the matter , like that .
i think that molecular biology , in general , is now , in general , biotechnology , everything you count , synthetic biology and so on .
it &apos;s extremely important , now it &apos;s extremely important , and it &apos;s going to be much , much more important .
there &apos;s some controversial things like all these genetically engineered plants on the apples .
there &apos;s craig venter in the u.s. , who &apos;s trying to make biofuel , which is gasoline from algae .
and then there are things that have come completely in the everyday world , but which most people don &apos;t even know , for example , washing enzymes that allow us to wash at 40 degrees of laundry are also genetically optimized enzymes .
and the list you can continue endlessly .
and that &apos;s an idea that , if you think about it , can only fulfill you with hope .
now the fascinating thing is that the bars that are in the liane are mao-inhibitors of exactly the kind that &apos;s necessary to potential the tryptamins . so ask yourself .
and so from the interest of this , in this technology , i just went in there .
this is why hacking now ?
most people know this from the software area .
computers hack , and then it &apos;s always going to be like this , yes , the hackers break in and claw data and so on .
it &apos;s kind of very sad for the hacking scene , because that &apos;s not what it really started out like , and what &apos;s really behind it .
and that is , the software hackers , in the &apos; 70s , started tinkering with computer tinkering , and that &apos;s what the internet came out of .
and it &apos;s about solving a problem in a playful , creative , original way .
and the problem is , it &apos;s not just a technical problem , it can also be a social problem , it can also be a problem of access , which is kind of simplifying things , so any problem of throwing up a question , and how do you do it differently , or how do you do it better .
and it &apos;s just become generated with software , but there &apos;s also an electronics , there &apos;s also a whole tinkering scene that &apos;s going on with electronics circuits doing all kinds of triggered things .
and now i want to take this metaphor that comes from synthetic biology , that biology is actually an information science , because , the d.n.a code is an abstract code , which is not quite the same as computers , because it &apos;s more dynamic , so it &apos;s real matter , and it &apos;s not just cyber .
how can these people from a flora of 80,000 species of adstrinating plants find these two morphologically unrelated plants that , when combined in that way , create a kind of biochemical version , so that the whole thing is larger than the sum of its parts ?
but it &apos;s also a code , and you can program it , and so you can hack it , like that , and i found that incredibly fascinating , and i just wanted to get a lot deeper .
this actually took about two thousand eight thousand really shape , these networks .
there &apos;s hackteria dot org , which is originally from switzerland , which is with europe and with a cooperation in india based on the network , but now has members or active people all over the world .
this is a more artistic exhibition , so there &apos;s a lot of artists and philosophers , and working with scientists , trying to engage with these technologies and ask questions and work creatively , there &apos;s museum exhibitions and there &apos;s all kinds of things .
but it &apos;s really about finding such a locker access , such a playful way of dealing with it .
and then there &apos;s do-it-yourself bio dot org , d.i.y.bio .
this is a network from the u.s. , and this is actually more of a kind of forum where you &apos;re going to get together and talk online .
they &apos;re a little bit more technical , and they &apos;re also a little more business-centric , and they &apos;re also asked , you know , questions .
and from these networks that have made the whole popular , it &apos;s kind of evolved a scene that i just want to portray for a moment .
in the upper left , you see biocurious , which is a hackerspace , so basically a kind of school , like a private school , nonprofit facility , where anyone can come from .
we use this great euphemism , trial and error , which turns out to be meaningless .
kids , old people , all sorts of people , they go there to just sit down with it , they set up a lab , and they look at what you can do when these lab protocols are on .
here on the bottom left is a group in indonesia , house-of-natural fiber , which is , but they &apos;ve been around for quite a long time .
it &apos;s been longer than those other two networks .
they &apos;re also in an artistic aspect of biological materials and , yes , electronics tinkering , and they &apos;re combining it in a very rigid way .
a group of ankara , who i met a while ago , who had this is a group of students who wanted to communicate more to the public what they were learning in college , and they were doing so on street , and they were trying to explain to people what that is .
and i have a lecture up in the other image in copenhagen at the medical museum in combination with an exhibition on the topic .
and that is , yes , that &apos;s mostly quite young people , but the only thing that really brings you all together is this fascination of technology .
and what you can do with it , and you &apos;re also very targeted to the society to go and ask , &quot; okay , what do you know what do you want to do with it , do you have any interest in bringing you into it ? &quot;
so , okay , now to hack biology , you kind of need material .
you need biological materials , of course , and you need tools , and then that &apos;s a lab .
but you ask the indians , they say , &quot; the plant speaks to us . &quot;
or what you normally understand under a lab is this kind of riding machine , extremely expensive , extremely distanced , just for professionals , trained academics with ph.d. and so on .
and our approach was to say , okay , you don &apos;t really have to do that .
it &apos;s not necessary , actually , because every coffee machine has actually higher technology than most lab devices , it &apos;s really like this .
and then , for example , the o with this premise , with this premise , brian degger tried to put together a minimum abor , then took a steam printing opf , a heating plate , and , yes , so sought brothers , and then grew bacteria , worked .
so anyone who &apos;s ever played a soup that he &apos;s left for too long , has done it .
i then tried this in my lab at home to expand a little bit , and then i got this second-hand equipment on ebay and did a little bit of d.n.a analysis , tried to do a father &apos;s test , which is the way / d.n.a fingerprinting , to do it at home again .
this shouldn &apos;t be a joke , actually , but .
so , down here in the picture , you can see the lab , in the leadership , so there &apos;s a garage that &apos;s been built with all kinds of lab scaffolding that &apos;s been imitated in college , a group in paris that &apos;s been doing something , and it &apos;s pretty successful with it , and it &apos;s also doing quite interesting things , and i want to cut a project for a second .
and this is biocurious , which was also mentioned by hackerspace , this kind of folk school , basically for molecular biology .
and yeah , so , you see , it &apos;s relatively heterogeneous , so that &apos;s what people are doing on their own , all the way to large , larger organizations , who are already doing it in an institutionalized form .
so , what does that mean ?
but it &apos;s always the idea that it &apos;s supposed to be simple and accessible .
the first project that we did as an international group , when we kind of became aware of ourselves , ok , it &apos;s now giving us as a real scene here , and we &apos;re online , and we know the people who are always chatting and so on .
and then the do-it-yourself bio org website came from the founder , and he said , &quot; okay , we really have to meet , we have to meet real , we have two events , one in london , two thousand 10 , and soon after that , in the u.s. , in san francisco . &quot;
and then it was about , yes , who are we , what do we want , what do we want to share ?
and what are our values and what are our goals , our foundation ?
and then we worked out a code-of-conduct .
that was quite intuitive , so everybody just expressed their desires , their desires , and what moves them , then .
there was , in my opinion , a very good code .
and then we didn &apos;t combine that , but that &apos;s kind of , i think , has been pretty good , people are quite convinced of that .
and in fact , we tried to bring it back to the academic world , but it somehow didn &apos;t get there .
this tribe , the cofan , has 17 varieties of ayahuasca , that you all recognize at a distance in the forest that seems to be a species to our eyes .
so i think we &apos;re actually a step further than the academic world .
yeah , what kind of projects are we doing now ?
one project that i did with the hackteria network in switzerland itself was we wanted to build something called an optical trap or an optical pink chain .
that &apos;s when you focus a laser beam , on one in the room , you can catch little particles in the air , or in the liquid , and then move in that focus , so it &apos;s captured there , so it &apos;s like a tractor beam basically .
this really works , this is done in the academic setting , and then we thought , okay , maybe we &apos;ll get it there , then we took a webcam that &apos;s screwed up , turned the lens off , then you have a microscope that &apos;s about four hundred times bigger .
you can see that down there .
and then we screwed a d.v.d fiber apart , and we pulled the fire out the laser , and then we tried to focus on this camera .
and that didn &apos;t work , unfortunately , but we &apos;ve learned a lot .
this is another project that came out of the french group out of paris , which worked , which is pretty cool .
and he &apos;s got this kind of brain wave measurement , like e.e.g , or something like that , so he &apos;s been doing neurobiology , his nickname is sam neurohack .
and then you ask them how they start their taxonomy , and they say , &quot; i thought you understood something about plants .
he then built this helmet there , and in the cooperation with the museum , that &apos;s what happened .
and then the visitors could go into the room , sit on this chair , sit on this helmet .
then their brainwaves were measured , and depending on what they thought , or how they thought , they went to different lights in the room .
it was a pretty fateful project .
another thing from the united states , which has to do with this father &apos;s story , is the p.c.r , which is the polymer chain response , complicated word .
so it &apos;s about copying genes , replicating genes , d.n.a , making fragments so that you can make them visible .
so now , when i do this , the profilers in the crime scene , they go and collect some hair-samples , and then they do this kind of technique , and then they can say , o.k , this hair belongs to this person , like this .
and the machines that do this , they &apos;re pretty expensive to buy , the cheapest ones go off at 4,000 euros .
and that &apos;s not in the hobbyfield , but it &apos;s a really cool technology that can also do a lot .
so this is just one application of many that you can do with it .
i mean , you know nothing at all ? &quot; and i said , &quot; no . &quot;
and they put two builders on the ground , and they said , okay , we &apos;re going to make it easier and cheaper , and then they &apos;re going to have open source , so available hardware , electronics , this device , and they &apos;re going to assemble , and now they &apos;re actually going to bring this to the market drives , and they &apos;re now the cheapest providers of these devices in the world .
i think it &apos;s kind of like a sixth dollar or something like that .
but anyway , it &apos;s still not cheap , but it &apos;s certainly in a context where it &apos;s more available .
so , i think it &apos;s a very nice hack .
one project that i started recently was to build a gene gun .
gene-gun is , yes , like a kind of air pressure pistol , which shoots about that far , two centimeters or so .
you put d.n.a on gold particles and the gold particles into these air pressure pistol , and then i shot them on onions and then made them light with it .
so the device that you see there , it didn &apos;t work .
but that &apos;s my prototype , but it was pretty much like that , on a branch like that , that thing on it , put electronics on it and pressure , and that was the pressure that was too high , that thing was broken .
and then i took a juicer &apos;s pender and i put it on .
so , it turns out that you take every one of the 17 variants in full moon and you sing them to one in a different pitch .
a juicer , if you make it full of water , it has enough pressure , so i think it &apos;s about 40 to six .
and then you can accelerate the particles a lot enough , and then the particles go in the onion .
and the commercial device costs about 15,000 euros up or something like that , say , about 50 .
so it doesn &apos;t have the same efficiency , but it &apos;s basically feasible .
so this is also the core issue of the scene right now , to increase this availability of technology and also to increase the information and the understanding that more people can get engaged .
because , as i said in the beginning , it &apos;s an extremely important technology , and most people have relatively little idea , and also no opportunity to form really well .
because , if you just read about it , from secondary literature , that &apos;s not the same as if you &apos;ve done it yourself or seen it .
and i think technology is becoming increasingly important in our modern societies .
and if you want to be able to make meaningful decisions in society as well as informed citizens , and you want to be able to talk to each other , you need access to knowledge and to technology .
and you also have to do it and understand it to do it and understand it .
now , that doesn &apos;t give you a ph.d. at harvard , but it &apos;s much more interesting to count than tribe .
and then that &apos;s under the headwords of open knowledge and citizen science .
so that you &apos;re being empowered as citizens to be able to deal with these scientific technologies .
and this is the core cause of the biohackers .
these are the people who have at least officially contributed on the website , d.i.y. bio-dot-org website .
that &apos;s a relatively remarkable number of people around the world .
and what &apos;s interesting is that they &apos;re also represented in southeast asia .
that &apos;s me thinking they &apos;re there , there &apos;s fewer people in there than actually exist .
so i know about some of the people who haven &apos;t contributed .
and this is just the biohackers , the individual people .
and partly , with these hackerspaces , they put these places together .
