you know , one of the great reasons about traveling and one of the joys about ethnography research is to live together with the people who can remember the old days , and who still feel their past in the wind , they touch them on the rains of glass , they taste them in the bitter leaves of the plants .
and that &apos;s in the very beginning .
now , the problem -- the problem is that even those of us who have sympathy for the difficult situation of the infants , look at them as orginial and colorful , but somehow constrained them to the past , while the real world , that is our world , continues .
as i said , two-thousandth , it just started .
and hackerspaces , the computer hackerspaces , because the c-base in berlin was the first , ninety-five hundred .
and this has now become a huge network of very good , yes , infrastructure centers that are represented all over the world .
and we &apos;re hoping , of course , that we &apos;re going to be similar to the spread , and then we &apos;re going to be very much connected , so that people can get more involved .
and i would invite everyone to do this and try something themselves .
together , the myriad cultures of the world form a web of spiritual and cultural life that surrounds the earth and is as important for the sake of the earth as the biological life web that you know as a biosphere .
now , it &apos;s not that simple , but it &apos;s not impossible , if you have enough curiosity and you put enough energy in there , you get a long way .
thank you for listening .
that &apos;s it .
yes , hello .
how do we actually work for people ?
so , the fact is that in 300 years , you &apos;re not going to remember the 20th century , you &apos;re not going to remember your wars or your technological innovations , but rather , as an era where we were in charge of , and the massive destruction of biological and cultural diversity on earth is either active or passively accepted , so the problem is not the change .
this is a question that really drives me as a designer , but also in the field of research , usability , and most of all things in user experience .
it &apos;s about how you encounter people in interactive media , so that they can use these interactive media and create a very satisfying experience .
because i think that the interactive media in us addresses archaic , cognitive models , so paradigms that have been programmed in our biological memory a very , very long time ago , and that we can just recreate them through interactive media right now .
and this is very amazing because it &apos;s actually believed that this high-technology that you &apos;re facing is actually going to bring you into the future , but in fact , the future is right with us , with our archaic roots .
now , what are archaic models ?
i used to write down four words , and i want to explain them for a second .
for archaic cognitive models , these are the models that we &apos;ve adapted in the pre-industrial times .
to these archaic models , we have a fundamentally natural relationship with virtuality .
that sounds , in principle , unusual .
but i &apos;m going to go back to that in a moment , and i &apos;m going to prove to you , by attempt , that you also have a natural relationship with virtuality .
all cultures have been involved in the dance with new possibilities of life .
the second thing is that , since this archaic model , we &apos;ve been able to speak very , very visually , even though we &apos;re using a coded language today .
and the third area , which actually explains itself .
we all know that the interactive media is nonlinear by definition , which involves the reasoning of linearity , and what , of course , tells us that we feel the linearity today as normal .
the fourth thing is that the story for us is a place of information .
now , what about the virtuality that &apos;s actually the most natural thing in the world .
i want to prove this to you .
how many doors does the house you live in ?
we &apos;re not going to be able to answer it immediately to me , but this is what &apos;s going to happen , and it &apos;s going to happen right now .
they go through this house in the mind , so they live in , and look at how many doors there are .
and that &apos;s what they do .
and the problem is not technology itself .
they &apos;re virtualizing reality without computers .
fantastic , right ?
and that &apos;s where we &apos;re struggling with the media campus , for example , representing virtual reality in our v.r. lab , where we can actually do it all the time .
and this ability to virtual the reality , which people needed in the pre-industrial times , because they didn &apos;t have anything .
they didn &apos;t have books .
or they didn &apos;t have photographics .
they didn &apos;t have mass media .
the only thing they had was their head .
and in that head , the memory was played off .
in this head , knowledge was called down , and with these virtual images , the imagination , knowledge has just been passed on .
the sioux indians didn &apos;t listen to being on sioux anymore , when they bow and arrow tasks , when the americans stopped being americans when they were horse and horse carriage tasks .
and so it &apos;s also so strong in us that we can deal with virtuality so well .
the interesting thing is , if i can do a little trip .
yeah , that &apos;s what &apos;s going on .
what &apos;s interesting about this is that at that time , the human being was simultaneously media producers and medium itself .
now , if you think a little bit further .
what are media today ?
then you &apos;ll notice that there &apos;s been a change .
but that &apos;s what i &apos;ll talk about in a minute .
the key tool of information training has been stories all the time .
shamanas , priests , so-called knowledge guards , were laid down to keep knowledge in stories .
not change and technology threaten the integrity of the ethnosphere . it &apos;s power . the ugly face of the rule .
and even today , we &apos;re still very , very strong with stories .
the author of the book , the storytelling animal , jonathan gotchall , we still connect a thousand hours a year to the prescription of stories .
that means for a child who has spent most of his life in the prescription of stories to achieve the great year .
now we think our love of stories depends on us as a child sitting on our parents &apos; lap .
no , no , far missing .
this goes way back to the cultures of the pre-industrial times .
but for me , in the realm of interactive media , it &apos;s very impressive that , by the way , we &apos;ve been announcing in our biological memory , the ability to think nonlinear .
i brought you an example of the native american tribe of the nootka indian .
and the lives lived in the coastal region of british columbia .
and as you can see , this is a very island area , and you had to sort of navigate from island to island to get food .
and they did this with what &apos;s called lead-land maps .
you may know that , if you &apos;re interested in it a little bit , of the australian peoples .
they have similar principles .
they don &apos;t have lead-land maps , but they &apos;ve used the so-called songlines or trauma paths .
and what &apos;s interesting about this is that the navigation and the topography of regions could be represented by songs .
where the language was subordinated by the bottom rang .
that means you navigate sound and about rhythm .
and these sounds and this rhythm have the geology , the topography of a region , and that , of course , enabled you to defragment these songs and put them together differently and move to the left , right and also to the output .
why don &apos;t we sing to get from top a to b ?
anyway , not to navigate .
or if we go to the mountains of tibet , where i study a lot recently , you &apos;ll see the ugly face of political dominance .
what actually happened ?
what happened is that this is the genetically named machine age .
we &apos;ve moved to something called the avian age before .
what &apos;s happened is the machine age , and what &apos;s happened is the book , and what &apos;s happened is it &apos;s the photoolitography .
and that &apos;s what &apos;s happened is that we &apos;ve shifted the responsibility for our memories and the production of our individual memories to external media .
on the book and on the picture .
so , unfortunately , god has a little bit to virtualize .
virtuality has suddenly become alien to us , and it has nothing to do with reality .
bruce brown , a famous design researcher at brighton university , has gone so far as to say that this mass media , he says the book and the picture , so not the television , the internet , etc . , and so on , what we call mass media today , that these mass media have fossilized our memories , and that our ability to virtualize .
let &apos;s make a little footprint .
you know , the genocide , the physical extinction of people is generally convicted , but the ethnocid , the destruction of people &apos;s lifestyle , is not only convicted , but also celebrated in general and many of them as part of a developmental strategy .
from the avian age to the machine age .
what has influenced our thinking and our memories ?
then these are fading influences of pre-industrial cultures .
and they &apos;ve been overwrote over the centuries more and more by the influences of the machine age .
so instead of individually remembering ourselves , we have standardized , widespread , widespread patterns of memories that we can hang on our personal memories .
we no longer produce ourselves .
we have an abstract language of abstract language .
we &apos;re not imagining the thing in pictures of things no longer in images , but we &apos;re encoding them to you our language .
we &apos;ve been used to things happening linearly .
and we &apos;ve accepted the linearity as a law , and there are only exceptions , like non-linearity .
and you can &apos;t understand the suffering of tibets if you haven &apos;t experienced it at the bottom level .
what we were left with is the story telling .
still , we are very , very arrested to the storytelling as information mediation .
the question is , what &apos;s next ?
we had the vocabulary age , we had the machine age , and we now describe what we call the cyber-age .
it sounds very spacious , and it sounds like science fiction , i know .
but these concepts of cyber-age are bringing these capabilities back to our capabilities .
it &apos;s about virtuality , it &apos;s about non-linearity , it &apos;s about storytelling .
i want to explain this a little bit for a second .
there are technical concepts like augmented reality , which means augmented reality .
so if you look at google glasses , for example , it &apos;s a concept that makes us recombine the virtual world with the real world , which is our affinity to virtualize , to feel virtual as something normal , natural , is addressed again .
i once traveled with a young colleague of mine 6,000 miles from chengdu in west china overland through southeast tibet to lhasa , and only when i came to lhasa , i saw the face behind the statistics that you hear , 6,000 sacred monuments that were transformed into rubble and ashes , 1.2 million people who were murdered by the cades during the cultural revolution .
another example is what &apos;s called virtual reality .
as crazy as it may sound in the context of my talk , we &apos;re physically moving into unexisting , virtual worlds , just after the holodeck model .
and other examples are the ambients , intelligent systems .
these are spaces that can respond intelligent to a human being .
you can think of this cultural web of life as an ethnosphere , and ethnosphere can be defined as the total sum of all thoughts and dreams , myths of ideas , inspiration and intuitions that have been produced by the human imagination since the beginnings of consciousness .
all of this requires the ability to accept our basic ability to accept virtuality as a real habitat .
i graduated , and i hope that the video works , a very , very beautiful project , which is the bachelor work of michael burk , ann-kathrin , joris klause and jan-moritz garbage .
and the two last ones are also here today .
maybe you can stand up for a second so they can talk to the two about the project at the break .
and i brought this project with me as an example , again , to address this archaic , cognitive model .
the whole thing is a game , i have to say .
this young man &apos;s father was identified as the tag of the panel lama .
which , of course , is extremely opposite to the storytelling , and it &apos;s a computer game .
and when i say computer games , you &apos;re very likely to see that some people are happy around in front of any consoles , or that they &apos;re playing with the console with any console in their hands .
anyway , they do it in there .
this is a game for the outside .
and that &apos;s what &apos;s targeted for me to explore the outside world , which is to rediscover the real world .
and this game connects the virtual world , which is the data that we produce with the real world .
i apologize that i have to cut so much .
you can explain that much better , there &apos;s a lot more to it .
and that is that i explore a city by looking at where positive or negative places have been tweeted .
and so i get a very different view from the city , a very different impression , which is that i see negative and positive zones of a city , and so i get a very different virtual map of a very real city .
that meant that he was instantly killed during the chinese invasion .
and we can look at that now .
ah , what you can see here , sorry , is another little explanation of what you &apos;re about to see .
of course , this virtual world lives in the walls of our cities is clear .
and with a kind of flashlight , we can make these virtual worlds visible .
so , i &apos;d like to summarize my talk in the sense that the properties and the skills that we &apos;ve acquired from the vocabulary age have come to us a little bit of a shatter in the machine age that can be activated with the so-called cyber age , and that we can actually get back to us in this way about complex , technological , new products , not into the future , but actually coming back to our roots .
thank you .
yes , i &apos;m very happy to be with them .
i &apos;ve just been asked if this sack is a talking bag and i &apos;m going to speak .
he &apos;s not going to do that .
i &apos;m also going to resolve what &apos;s in there .
his uncle flew into the diaspora with her holiness that brought people to nepal .
but i &apos;m just going to make it a little bit curious .
yes , kids are naturally curious or should be curious , designers as well .
i &apos;m a creator of house , so , of course , i &apos;m also involved in the subject of curiosity , and how curiosity changes the way we think , and why do we lose curiosity and have to reject it , and so on .
this is a whole series of things that you &apos;re dealing with next to the actual existence as a creator .
when professors get curious , they &apos;re often pushed into this kind of research semester .
and that &apos;s what i had last half a year .
a research semester on natural interface design .
now you &apos;re going to ask yourself , why are all the designers starting to engage with such natural , archaic forms of communication , interaction and so on .
and i &apos;m just holding one of these little devices up , because things are supposed to become more intuitive , more and more natural , user-friendly , and you have to look , what &apos;s actually natural for us humans , what &apos;s user-friendly or intuitive .
and before the background , i &apos;ve been in the field of natural interface design , so the next generation of the human computer in which the human computer is dealing with how our tools or how the computer is changing from the computer sukessive to the digital assistant .
his mother was locked in as a punishment for -- for crimes to be wealthy .
so i &apos;ve been looking at this , when is natural or intuitive ?
maybe you also have to look back at it .
why does this happen at all ?
so if we look at the development of our society , briefly represented here , then we &apos;re moving from the third to the fourth generation of society , or social form .
so from modern to computer society .
every society is shaped by a primary medium .
in the beginning , the tribal society through language .
that means that you found yourself , by talking to a common language , you could communicate with each other , moved into the same cave , or in other areas , cities have created or villages , and so you know , created tribal society .
but the primary medium was the language , something very natural , something very living .
you also had to learn , so no child can talk about nature , but we learn it sukessive and proportionately , of course .
he was smuggled into jail at the age of two to hide under her rock ciplage , because she couldn &apos;t live without him .
that was then dissolved by the ancient society and the first form of abstraction .
this was a huge riot at the time , because , of course , living language began to manifest in the form of writing , which is what fluid and alive is , i start and i throw it in stone and i manipulate it with it .
so , depending on how i throw and when i carve , of course , it &apos;s a very different coverage than if there &apos;s a kind of life .
but sukessive then moved this script as a primary medium , got involved .
and then the next generation that we actually live in today was primarily .
this is just the printing and print writing with gutenberg and others .
it was just like a monkey , where adel , klerus and others have said , you &apos;re actually crazy when people start reading , they want to talk afterwards , and of course that &apos;s completely fatal .
and now we &apos;re going to get into the next generation , and the exciting thing is that a generational shift is only every few hundred years , and we &apos;re really in this phenomenal stage right now , that we &apos;re doing this .
and of course , that completely confuses us , because we see , on the one hand , the new media , social media , facebook and so on .
with total transparency , what the new thinking is , what bangs on the old thinking , don &apos;t say that in the lasagne horse meat and no beef is more or other phenomena , which is i just want to screw this up , and i don &apos;t want to do that .
the sister who did this brave act was brought to an education camp .
and these two worlds are just banging on each other , new and old thinking .
and the exciting thing about this is , if you look at this , this new society , this computer society , it &apos;s a lot of mechanisms , principles and archaic paradigms from the tribal society .
but now , not at the local level , but at the global level .
we &apos;ve understood that the weather is global .
that the theme of ecology is a global issue .
not if i think local ecologically here , and the neighbor thinks less ecologically , it doesn &apos;t work .
that means that the local village has actually become a global village with the same principles , of course , possible , intuitively , but also the total transparency .
as you knew in the village at the time , who has what with whom and when , this is what &apos;s happening today about this expansion of ourselves through these mobile ending devices at the global level .
be it that we know globally and faster and more and more .
just as it happened in the village in the early days .
one day , she walked out of sync with a armband of maos , and for that transmission , she had to go to a severe labor camp for seven years .
i &apos;ve just been looking at this in front of the background , what does it mean , what &apos;s natural for us , what else we might have lost , but what is instinctive for us , so what makes the difference ?
because a lot of times people come , they can &apos;t make it user-friendly so that everyone can deal with it .
so you have to deal with what that means , and not just change it , that it &apos;s different , but it &apos;s supposed to be better .
and when , of course , it &apos;s a little bit intuitive , and how can i impact it as a creator and make things so that they &apos;re a user-friendly , so they &apos;re very intuitive , because then they &apos;re fun and they &apos;re easy to use .
you know , you &apos;re dealing with , even during the study , the subject of perception and perceptual psychology .
and that &apos;s , of course , where you start and look and say , okay , now i just look inside the self .
and what does it actually look like in there ?
so how do we work when we look in there ?
and what does it mean , of course , intuitively and how do our channels work , and how does cognitive processing work work work ?
because steve jobs once said you need to get to dig deeper to understand how it works .
the suffering of tibetans can be intolerable , but the redeeming spirit of people is something unforgettable .
so you really have to look in detail , if i want to make something user-friendly or intuitively handful , which means that in the core .
and you can see that a is our seven senses , most people think we have only five , now it &apos;s even seven recognized , there &apos;s certainly the near future , the next , eighth sense , and as an extension of ourselves .
and looking at how do we process information , how do we record information ?
to say by itself , what is information ?
information is every difference that makes a difference .
a lot of people use the word , but they don &apos;t know what it means then .
but i have to understand in the core , in the nature , when information becomes information , when data becomes information , and from information , so that i know how to make things possible , intuitively , or of course , maneuverable .
and of course , how design affects perception .
we see this here , when i design things , i can confuse them , like on the right , where i don &apos;t know what &apos;s salt and pepper , or i can sort of make them intuitive by showing things .
so much more natural , in a vessel , but i kind of see directly where salt and pepper is in there .
and at the end of the day , we &apos;re really in a choice : do we want to live in a monochromatic world of monotonia or in a polychromatic world of diversity ?
and when i tell someone , give me salt or pepper , they &apos;ll think about the right one , where is it in there .
and on the left , just intuitively access , and then hopefully i &apos;m hoping that no sugar is in there , it &apos;s salt .
but also , our perception of how it fails us .
for example , this perception in context .
the right-hand circle looks bigger than the small one , even though that &apos;s not the case , but they &apos;re just the same size , and yet our perception changes , depending on what context we put things in .
does anybody know what that is ?
come on .
pattern recognition should work .
there it is going to be more like my glasses .
so it &apos;s a circle .
margaret mead , the great anthropologist said before she died , that one day it &apos;s her greatest fear that as we move towards a thread , staggering , generic worldview , we would see not just the entire range of human imagination reduced to a mindset , but that one day we wake up from a dream and forgot that there were ever other possibilities .
a second circle is already beginning to correlate or associate certain similarity .
the ethnosphere is the great legacy of humanity .
and when i stop sitting in a halboval , all of a sudden we don &apos;t just see one more unit , which is circle , circle and , but we see one unit , we don &apos;t see any more three parts , one circle , one circle , another circle .
it &apos;s called the design law , or the design psychology , which also affects us in perception .
the importance of the designers , they usually have this in the first semester , the great design laws .
shape-based law near , shape law of the continuity and so on .
often in the third one , forget again .
but that &apos;s an essential component , if you want to make things so intuitively possible .
the next phenomenon , which is also very interesting to see .
sounds very banal , but it &apos;s really exciting when you get closer to it .
so we have the eyes in the front , and now you think we &apos;re looking from the front to the back .
and it &apos;s humbling to think that our species may have existed for 600,000 years .
that &apos;s wrong .
you see first from the back to the front .
namely , they projieve a premise that they see something that they recognize , unprecedented circle .
that means we &apos;re only projying our vision before we see it , bringing it back into our seheater , to say , okay .
i have this cognitive feedback , you &apos;ve projusted what you want to see .
that &apos;s also there , and then that comes back .
then it goes back to the front , because the back doesn &apos;t trust the front , and says , well , really look again , please , and make sure that what you see is also what you want to see .
and then it goes back to the back , and then it &apos;s actually seen .
so a very , very exciting process of how certain things happen and what kind of millisecond areas these things happen .
i don &apos;t know who knows this picture .
the neolithic revolution that brought us agriculture and gave us the cult of the seeds at that moment , which replaced the poetry of the shaman through the prose of the priesthood and created hierarchy , specialization and overshooting -- only 10,000 years ago .
there &apos;s exactly the same thing that i &apos;ve just described .
now , everybody from this pattern is trying to see something .
i don &apos;t know who recognizes .
anybody see something in particular ?
a dalmatiner , exactly .
once i &apos;ve seen that , that &apos;s a dalmatiner in there , you know that .
you &apos;re never going to forget about it because i &apos;m going to show you where the dalmatiner is .
now you see the dalmatiner .
and on , you always see it now .
that means that i &apos;ve actually spoiled you now that you no longer recognize any pattern in it , but i &apos;ve conditioned you within a very short period of time to see this dog in this degraded image .
the modern industrial world as we know it is barely 300 years old .
and this is the projection of vision , feedback , vision .
now i know , and now i &apos;m projying forward that i see the dalmatiner .
i see the dalmatiner .
so , very , very exciting processes , which are actually not in this , yes , gray is not , but it &apos;s just in this rosane mass .
does anybody know what three seconds is ?
long , yes .
that &apos;s our present .
so , it &apos;s always interesting to know as designers .
if i know , it takes me three seconds to sort of take me out of the present to the last loop , i can also bridge very well wait times when i do it by employing someone at three seconds .
that &apos;s what he has to process as the present .
now , this surface story doesn &apos;t tell me that we have all the answers to the challenges that we face in the coming millennia .
then it goes into the past , and so i can bridge very elegant times , for example , on the computer when i know this phenomenon .
what takes five milliseconds to do ?
yes , milliseconds .
it &apos;s also a very exciting phenomenon .
this is the time you fall in love with .
that means awe , if you know this now , pay attention to who you &apos;re looking at for how long , because i don &apos;t take over there a gun for what can happen .
and six milliseconds , a very exciting phenomenon .
that &apos;s the time time of most of the perceptions that we have .
that is , this first impression happens at a rapid speed , how we perceive things .
and also , as we see things , what we &apos;re paying attention to , and how we &apos;re sort of insuring ourselves against our environment , so that we can think about it accordingly .
if we ask these myriad world cultures about the meaning of being human , they respond with 10,000 different voices .
of course , the designers are not just dealing with the subject of perceptions and neural processing or cognition , but primarily , with the subject of human-object relationship .
so how does a human being deal with certain things .
there &apos;s a product linguistic feature , so formal aspects or formalaesthetic aspects .
there are signs functions where i know exactly where i have to grasp .
but there are also symbolic functions , why is it that anybody there is such a small valleys , where they &apos;re not going to fit in , so horrendous amounts of money , even though it &apos;s not that practical ?
there we are , of course , at the symbolic level , at the level of meaning that we &apos;re looking at as designers , as well .
back to my actual theme of natural interface and the subject , which , of course , is usability .
usability always means how quickly can i achieve a certain goal , or how can a user achieve in a particular context , effectively , efficiently and satisfactory a goal .
that &apos;s how it &apos;s more like the norm .
how can i make something possible to use friendly ?
and in this song , we &apos;re going to rediscover the possibility of being what we are : people with full consciousness who are aware of the importance that all people and gardens have to be able to thrive in a space , and there are great moments of optimism .
can i direct that , or do i need &apos; n manual , &apos; i need &apos; application for that .
and less usable or user-friendly , it is .
that i &apos;m just doing it differently and more nicely doesn &apos;t mean it &apos;s better to handle .
you also have to understand that .
and then , in part , if you look at the software that we &apos;ve just seen , you &apos;ll also understand why ninety-nine percent of our software today is less intuitive or unintuitive , the i-pad in many areas or i-phone , even though it &apos;s far more intuitive than classic software .
now , intuitive usability is not just a fundamental economic factor , fundamental success factor , if i want to use technology to people .
why ?
because generally , through this new kind of usability , the natural user ín faces , for example , are five times faster on average on our goal .
you have to imagine that if you do something of the classic softer , it takes five hours , and with this new kind of natural software , you only have an hour .
that doesn &apos;t mean that you &apos;re more likely to go home for four hours , but your employer , or anyone , is going to come up with how they &apos;re dealing with them for the four hours .
here &apos;s a photograph i took at the northern end of the baffin islands when i went to the narwhal hunt , and this man , olaya , told me a wonderful story of his grandfather .
but i want to say that , of course , for us , it &apos;s a corresponding increase in performance to achieve certain things as well .
so if we go back to the software area , here &apos;s the first command line interfaces that were very abstract , where it took months to deal with these systems .
and then the next one , which has already worked with the nem neural model or mental model like the software eergonoma , which is you would have an idea of something , the metaphor , the metaphor of a desktop , to make the computer usable .
so not anymore zeros and ones or cryptic codes , but a metaphor .
that made it much more user-friendly , but it &apos;s also , of course , much better .
the next generation of graphic user surfaces already works a lot more with behavior .
so that &apos;s where , as a creator , i form behavior much more often than what it looks like .
that &apos;s also a paradigm shift .
that , all of a sudden , the appearance is becoming increasingly unimportant for success , just the usability becomes an application .
and then if i go one step further into these natural interfaces , where i have a voice , by language , by touch , by gesture and not by mouse and cursor to control things , i &apos;m even faster and more immediate .
the canadian government has not always moved very well with the inuit , and over the 50 years of the establishment of our rule , they have been forced to move into settlements .
but that also leads me back to the point where things actually become more intuitive ?
when you become more intuitive , and then i have to go back and punch my little friend here and see , what does that mean from the point of view of cognition , when is there really something intuitive ?
and that &apos;s always , for us humans , a little bit intuitive when i have to think about it very little .
so he doesn &apos;t seem to think , but he wants to make it easy in proportion .
the less i think about it , in a way , the more intuitive it is .
and what does that mean for the designer ?
that means , if we look at that we can transfer existing models of action from one to another , for example , the metaphor , then i can use it as a creator .
that means i can put an intuitive human action model on a software and make the software much more user-friendly .
and of course , the question is , what is the most intuitive act of human beings , and now i &apos;ve already promised .
this is the so-called osit-model .
the grandfather of this old man refused .
this is what each of us uses , and osit is an acronym , and it stands for guidance , selective , informed , transformed .
each of you is doing this all the time , but it &apos;s making it unconscious , and it &apos;s kind of intuitive or partly instinctive .
the model is already being used in the womb and is intercultural , so it works around the world in young and old , and it &apos;s being used all the time without most of us knowing that this model is there .
osit sit himself is going to be about 50 to seven thousand times after activity , so in sleep it &apos;s been found that it &apos;s going to be less frequently punished than it is on the day .
i can now orient this mental action model , select , inform , transfer it to an interaction system .
and through this kind of transmission , similar to the metaphor of the desktop , but now not a metaphor of a physical object , but a metaphor of a action pattern , an action principle .
and this is on a higher grail of user friendliness than the transmission of a classical metaphor , which is the desktop .
and if i translate this now , for example , in which i &apos;m going to be able to do this as a review , selective as a choice , inform in the case , it &apos;s going to be big on me , i can look at it in detail , and yes , transfer it , i can throw it somewhere , or send somebody in or shop and so on .
then i can transmit this whole thing .
i &apos;m going to try this through an example .
the family that was afraid of his life took all the guns and all the tools .
you know , everybody &apos;s eaten cake .
so , consideration : now i &apos;m kind of interacting with the object , can zoom back out , zoom in .
i get the whole overview , i can now filter on this and say , just show me all the chocolate things , for example .
and all of a sudden , you have an interface , which is significantly more intuitive and much more natural .
because that i can reach things like the bits , touch them , and they come to me is much more natural than if , through hierarchically organized websites or other mechanisms , i think , can make these things available .
imagination is more important than knowledge , and with that sentence , i &apos;d like to conclude also by giving a and again the hint , and designers have to think differently to come up with new solutions , and in that sense , thank you very much for your attention and please .
it &apos;s the symbol of what we are , and what we &apos;re capable of as an amazingly rich species .
i want to give you a very particular aspect of curiosity .
the first one , when you grow up as a child , as a baby , is that you care about what the divorces you have , right ? and depending on whether your parents have allowed you to play and touch more or less in the pottery , the more , so to speak , your curiosity , of course , gets woven up .
and curiosity is not learned .
that &apos;s why all of you who are here are curious are , in fact , people who have a property that you can &apos;t learn .
now you have to know that the inuit is not afraid of the cold , and they used it for their advantage .
i &apos;m going to talk about basically putting this whole environmental debate , global demise , 40 years of club-of-rome , into quality .
and there &apos;s a central point to this .
and it depends on phosphorus .
give pee a chance .
every day , you give plus-sizes about two grams of phosphorus , and every day you have to take two grams of phosphorus .
otherwise you can &apos;t have teeth .
they can &apos;t store energy .
they can &apos;t have bones .
we could only glide through the ocean as amorphous mollusks .
in fact , if we don &apos;t take a phosphorus and abandon it .
the tracks of their sled were originally made out of fish that were wrapped in caribbean skin .
and what &apos;s amazing is that we &apos;re dealing with something that &apos;s actually self-understanding , but is not like that .
because everybody &apos;s talking about energy , but nobody &apos;s talking about the phosphorus problem .
the phosphorus problem is much more critical .
we depend on two countries .
we only have phosphorus for two years , and already , through phosphorus mining , a lot more uranium in the environment than is used in all the nuclear plants in the world .
in the last 20 years alone , five thousand tons of uranium have been distributed in our fields in germany .
and we take it all up .
it makes leukemia in children .
and we think we &apos;d protect the environment if we &apos;re a little less harmful .
so , for example , shake the environment , drove less cars .
the man &apos;s grandfather was not afraid of the arctic night or the blowing storm .
shake the environment , make less garbage .
shooting the environment , consuming less energy .
but that &apos;s not a protection .
this is like , if i said , shake your child , only three times instead of five times .
that &apos;s just a little less destruction .
if we think about the weighs to the bathroom , our whole earth is going to be a cemetery sooner or later .
that &apos;s why you think about the weighs to weigh .
and the most important thing is to look at the floor , first of all .
in the ground , over 60-percent of the carbon is stored .
right now , we &apos;re growing corn and losing between 11 and 30 kilograms of 30 tons per hectare , or the square meter .
he slammed out , put his pants down from sea fur and defeated into his hand , and when the feces began to freeze , he shaped them into the shape of a knife .
that means we lose about five thousand times more in the ground than we are reformed .
of course , we can first look at the waste problem .
and everything is package or content .
for example , in the obviously house garbage , 20 percent of the amount of garbage is now wind .
and as we get older , the windmills get bigger .
that &apos;s kind of all of them in the forewind phase .
yes ?
a baby needs about six thousand wind .
we could , of course , reduce that by 10 percent , but what does that do ?
this is balanced in china in a second .
he sprayed saliva on the sides of the fecal knife , and when it was frozen completely , he amazed a dog with it .
this is completely trivial .
so the question is , how do we deal with these windmills ?
this is a proof , by the way , that men are not pigs .
let me tell you .
because the phosphorus is given to the pigs about the solid ingredients .
the people over the urine .
yeah .
so men can &apos;t be pigs with this .
because that &apos;s what it &apos;s doing , right ?
traditionally , we think in the environmental debate , we &apos;re too many in the world .
he would unveil the dog , and he would improvise a dish , take the dog &apos;s skeleton and improvise a sled , relax another dog , and swap over the ice sheets with the fecal knife on the belt .
and if you tell the people that if you tell the people to exist , if you say that &apos;s better , you weren &apos;t there , they &apos;re going to be refining and hostile .
and so someone like al gore , one of our great heroes , there &apos;s nothing more important than stabilizing the human population .
in israel you say , if you save a human life , you save the earth .
here it says , the more you kill , the better .
yeah .
the first question is , are we really too many ?
if you look at the ants , the weight of the ants on earth , the ants weigh about four times more than we humans .
i could also take termites , but in the united states , no one might termites , in that far , even though they &apos;re vegetarian .
that means that the ants weigh much more than we do .
and because they work physically much tougher than we do , and because they live only three to six months , they correspond to their weight , in energy consumption , a little bit of 30 billion people .
so you can do something out of nothing .
that means we &apos;re not too many , we &apos;re too stupid , right ?
and where you see how far we &apos;re away from what we really wanted to do and could , and how sad we are , that we &apos;re even on earth , you can see that , for example , obviously , there &apos;s a program that has , to 20 , 40 , you want to be climate-eutral here , right ?
you can only be climate-neutral if you don &apos;t exist , right ?
the only chance .
have you ever seen a climate-neutral tree ?
yes ?
one ?
that means all of our intelligence means that we want to be stupid as trees , right ?
yes ?
no tree is carbon neutral .
and this is , in many ways , a symbol of the resistance of the inuit and all the innate people in the world .
luckily , no , yes ?
there &apos;s no overpopulation problem in trees .
there are still six billion trees in the amazon area alone .
now , have you heard about some of the overpopulation problems of trees ?
that means that all of our intelligence means that we want to be stupid as trees .
and where you see , even in something like demeter , the most strict bio-agriculture , doesn &apos;t allow our own metabolic products to go back .
every year we lose three million tons of phosphorus that really have to go back into circuits .
and so we &apos;re too many .
just about that .
that means we feel so guilty about the earth that we say . there &apos;s no bio-land , no bioland , no natural et-progressing , and as you all say , that allow our own excrement to go back .
the canadian government gave back the inuit in april 1999 the complete control of an area bigger than california and texas combined .
isn &apos;t that sad ?
so we &apos;re too many .
it certainly makes sense to be less harmful in terms of oil consumption .
but where are we useful ?
we &apos;re trying to minimize our ecological footprint , but it &apos;s about having a big footprint that &apos;s useful .
we want to be good for society , we want to be good for the economy , but when it comes to the environment , the highest , not to be there , right ?
nullemissions , yes ?
you can only have nullemissions if you &apos;re not there .
even if you were to shoot now , you would have emissions .
so you can &apos;t solve that at all .
it &apos;s our new home country called nunavut .
we can do it differently .
we can reclaim our nutrients .
we do agriculture in brazil where we reclaim the nutrients .
directly , we can get nutrients back in agriculture in this way .
we do this in china , for example , where we take the waste directly .
in china , a night opf is still honey pots , as it were , right ?
and in our western world , we were always too stupid to bring back our nutrients .
and just as the biosphere was deployed a lot , it happened with the ethnosphere -- just at greater speed .
that is , the whole western civilizational history is about the fact that the city has always taken over , but never given back to the farmers .
and as a result , cities had to grow more and more , because the farmers went to the cities , and the cities had to keep moving away from their nutrients .
that &apos;s why all the western kingdoms are always expanded until they &apos;ve made the infrastructure , and then they &apos;re imploded .
it &apos;s an independent area . they control all the minerals .
yes ?
in china , it was different .
you &apos;ve been able to grow civilization for five thousand years , because you &apos;ve always been able to bring the nutrients back .
even today , if you &apos;re invited to eat in china , you &apos;re expecting for food to stay until you &apos;re looking for the toilet .
because it &apos;s unfriendly to go and take the nutrients .
they &apos;ve been invited to eat them , not for the nutrient theft .
that is , you can see on the internet how to reclaim the nutrients .
in fact , the beauty of this is , if you do this , you make agriculture , you make biogas , you know , on a hectare country with five thousand people in favelas , so that a farmer can produce about a hundred hundred dollars and wait for the plant to grow chickens and pig and ducks and vegetables and fish .
and the great thing about this is that the crime rate in the favelas goes back over nine percent .
so we don &apos;t have to control people to be very bad at all .
an amazing example , like a nation , a state that can seek and achieve repetition with its inhabitants .
we can support them to be good .
this is , of course , high-tech agriculture , but the facilities carry themselves .
the byproduct is clean water .
and they &apos;re designed like this , through the design that a farmer can just manage them .
that means that the crime rates go back .
and none of these facilities , we &apos;ve built over the last 20 years now , none of these facilities have ever been sabotted .
you could just throw a liter of aluminum in , and then the plant would be ruined for years .
don &apos;t happen .
that means we don &apos;t have to control people to be very bad at all .
we can support them to be good .
and finally , i think it &apos;s pretty obvious , at least for those of us who have traveled to these distant goals of the earth , to realize that they &apos;re not removed at all .
that means we have to get phosphorus back .
and by the way , if you want to do anything from that , write down , in germany , the best way to do it is by all the enlightenment facilities in frankfurt .
unfortunately , they &apos;re not in the open stream , but maybe they can help the france a little bit .
because the frankfurter facility could best regain the phosphorus .
and it has to go back .
what we see is that phosphorus is really critical .
and we see that it &apos;s going through .
we &apos;ve now been using in holland for over three years .
the dutch government has explained that they will be the first country in the world to regain phosphorus .
but we need that in total .
they are the home countries of somebody .
you know , there are two countries that control almost 70-percent of the world &apos;s phosphorus incidence .
opec is a bunch of orphanage buttons .
that &apos;s six hundred countries that control 40 percent of the oil reserves .
and we &apos;re going to be able to replace the oil with other energy carriers .
but you won &apos;t be able to replace the phosphorus .
that &apos;s not about making the existing one a little bit less bad , but it &apos;s about making something right .
and most of all , to ask what the right thing is .
that means it &apos;s about efficiency , it &apos;s not about efficiency .
in holland , of course , it &apos;s easier to understand , because in holland , the country is built on flowers .
yes ?
they represent part of the human imagination that goes back in the past times , and for all of us , the dreams of these kids , like the dreams of our own children , become part of the geography of hope .
imagine , for example , if your wife is sad , if you &apos;ve annoyed her , and you come with 50 roses .
completely inefficient .
but really , really effective , yes ?
or take a lip pen .
one woman in germany eats about six comma three kilograms in her lifetime .
here .
it &apos;s not scientifically accurate , because we don &apos;t know how much is being kissed away .
but a lip pen , even in this illumination , i can tell you , is completely inefficient , but really effective , right ?
one thing that &apos;s beautiful in life is not efficient .
that &apos;s not resource efficiency , but efficiency .
what we &apos;re trying to do at national geographic is we think that politicians never achieve anything .
asking , what is the right thing to do ?
not to burn the enlightenment mud a little bit better , and to defend it with it , and to lose all the materials for cycles , but first of all to ask , how do you close cycles ?
imagine mozart efficiently .
yes ?
if i invite you to dinner and say , yes , there &apos;s a tablet with open taste and a glass of water .
wonderful , &apos; what ?
that &apos;s efficient .
everything that &apos;s beautiful in life is not efficient .
if you fall in love with somebody , efficient ?
yes ?
we believe that polemics -- we believe that polemics is not persuasive , but we believe that storytelling can change the world , and so we &apos;re probably the best institution for storytelling in the world . our website is getting 35 million hits every month .
that is , everything that counts in life is not about saving , from reducing .
the whole environmental discussion .
we tell people , oh yeah , you don &apos;t have an environmental awareness in the south .
no , throwing away is exactly the right thing , right ?
every place you throw away , from , yes , you create opportunities for life .
but the wrong things .
if you throw away the wrong things , you have a waste problem .
how we think from the north .
that &apos;s where every footprint is disadvantaged .
if you walk , yes , every footprint destroys the ground .
156 nations send our television channel .
because the soil is going to die off , and the wind and the water is going to wash away .
but if you &apos;re in italy , every footprint means that the water is staying in the meadow for longer .
so , it &apos;s about creating a great footprint that becomes a wetlands .
not guilt management .
we say sustainability in germany .
yes ?
but if i ask you , how do you do that with your wife ?
so what do you say ?
sustainable .
then i say , heartfelt pity , yes ?
our magazines are read by millions .
that &apos;s the minimum .
so not saving , avoiding , avoiding .
every waste is nutrient .
and it &apos;s a lust when you see , in italy , the people in the high bow throw out the coke can out of the car .
because , you know , this is a fun process .
it &apos;s a form of refour behavior , right ?
you can show , i was there .
but with the right design , here we go .
for example , we &apos;ve developed an ice cream package , which is at room temperature liquid .
they can throw them away where they go and stand .
and we do a series of trips to the ethnosphere where we take our audience to places of such cultural wonders that they are being blinded by the seen , and hopefully , one after the other , they will take on the central revelation of anthropology : that this world has earned to exist in different ways , that we can find a way of life in a really multicultural pluralistic world where the wisdom of all people can contribute to our common well-being .
in two hours , it builds up everywhere .
and it contains seeds of rare plants so that they can throw away the biodiversity .
that means we &apos;re useful , not less harmful .
so there are two cycles .
not all to be composable , of course .
no biologist would say , for example , that 50 percent or more of all species are just before extinction , because it &apos;s just not true . and yet , this -- the most apocalyptic scenario in the field of biodiversity -- is almost unknown as the most optimistic scenario in the field of cultural diversity .
a television or a washing machine , they just use it , they don &apos;t use it .
just the things that vary , like shoe soles , like brakes , like cars , they have to be so that they go into biological systems .
the things that are just used are going into technical systems .
but today we &apos;re just talking about the biological systems .
yes ?
thank you .
for example , the sneaker , right ?
very direct advertising , not for the company , puma per se , but for helping this company make these products successful .
because we don &apos;t make things more free .
yes ?
so , if i invite you to eat and say , this is free of chicken , it doesn &apos;t help you .
no , we &apos;re realizing what &apos;s inside .
positive .
so not like detox .
not toxic in .
it &apos;s all that &apos;s in there that &apos;s useful .
what i &apos;m going to show you , first of all , as quickly as possible , is the basic work , a new technology that we have transmitted microsoft as part of a adoption of just one year ago , which is seadragon , and it &apos;s an environment where you can either locally or remove with huge amounts of visual data .
these are the first shoes that you can put the cavalry launch on the pedestrian light and the rubber can go into biological cycles , right ?
all of this is composable .
and of course , if we succeed , we can do it for adidas , for nike , for hennes and mauritz and all the textile industry .
and that &apos;s half the world &apos;s sewage problems that are caused by the textile industry .
that &apos;s why they help , ask for people .
hey , puma , are you really serious ?
because they &apos;ve changed the chairman twice now .
and i &apos;m not sure they &apos;re really there .
so , help me a little bit .
but it goes .
we see many , many gigabytes of digital photographs here , which you can seamlessly and continuously rearrange , in any way .
yeah .
that &apos;s what &apos;s just been shown .
that &apos;s going on .
we can do things now that , if you abuse , if you break , you can go into biological cycles .
technical cycles are the same .
there &apos;s a direct back-up system for this .
this is the first ecological backpack , actually , that &apos;s made to go back to the cycle .
and so , in any store , you can get things back .
if you come to that , right ?
do you remember the windmill again ?
and it doesn &apos;t matter how much information we look at , how big these collections are , or how big the images are .
right now , it &apos;s garbage .
all over the place , these winds are close .
in the countries where people come to money .
there &apos;s deponia on the front , but also in the landscape , right ?
if we change the plastics , so that it can go into biological systems , if we change the water storage , inside that you can just go back to cellulosic base , then you can plant with a baby in israel or in tunisia , hundreds of trees .
yes ?
just if you take these winds , you shrink them , you sterilize them , and you take the powder to plant trees .
so the baby is carbon positive for all life , from the beginning .
so , we don &apos;t need to be climaneutral , we can be climate positive .
it &apos;s kind of a behavioral poop print .
most of you are digital photographs of a camera , but this is , for example , a scan of the library of congress , and it &apos;s in a 300 megapix area .
yeah , so to speak .
yes ?
we can do that .
we can reinvent everything again .
i started an institute on this .
there are a lot of people working there , and they can all be engaged .
there &apos;s an extra clue to cradle to cradle where everyone can participate .
so not saving , reducing , avoiding , reducing , no debt management , but intelligent waste .
does that make you curious ?
thank you .
it doesn &apos;t matter , because the only thing that can restrict the power of a system like this is the number of pixels on your screen at every moment . it also has a very flexible architecture .
the work of interpreting .
music as a language .
in the description of my talk , i write that as an interpreter , i am a translator , so in the english sense of the word .
interpreters are translators of the written notes in clinical music .
that , as a translator , you don &apos;t just translate the word for word into a different language , but you have to understand the deeper sense of words and wordstream in order to make it a meaningful translation , everyone who has to do with foreign languages .
now , translating from german into english can require more knowledge , once you &apos;re talking about poetry or even poetry .
but it &apos;s very strange for layman , what we do with our music language to musicians .
as an interpreter of a piece of music , i first wrote the written notes .
you think the composer has written in the notes exactly everything he &apos;s imagined .
in fact , the notes are very vague and inaccurate .
this is a whole book , an example of non-image data .
these notes are about as accurate or inaccurate as a verbal , even though very seemingly penile , description of a landscape .
because in this verbal description , the smell of flowers is not to smell , the degree of the green is just not to hear the acids of the wind , not to feel .
that is , the interpreter has to translate these inconvenient attacks of the emergency language into another , which is audible , concrete , non-verbal music language .
today , i &apos;d like to translate to you what i think is musical , which is interpreting , again , into a verbal language .
so basically a translation of translation .
so i prefer to do it in german , because if i had to translate it into english again , it would be equivalent to me translating the translation of translation .
so , the music , for me , works as much as spoken language .
the noted notes have the function of the letters of a script .
so it &apos;s not enough to just read notes and push the keys on the piano or the right place on a violin string .
because that would be just the letters you &apos;ve learned to paint .
this is bleak house of dickens . every column is a chapter .
the point of the letters is that if you can get the language to it .
so you need the learning of music language to be at least as long as spoken language .
now , there are also some stages , whether you learn it for the use , only passively understand it or you can talk actively , to the musical mother &apos;s utero .
the interpreter &apos;s work starts very similar to a theater director .
after you &apos;ve chosen a piece to play first , because you &apos;re excited about it , you &apos;re first researching the background of composition .
you collect information about the play in the secondary literature .
you read in the letters , journals , notes , or if there are words , thoughts of composers themselves .
you study the work that he composed before and after .
you compare comparison .
the motivations to write it .
to prove that it &apos;s really a text and not a picture , we can do something like this to really show that this is a real representation of text and not a picture .
how did he feel ?
what were its circumstances of life , like society and politics ?
i &apos;m interested in all this .
you think in that time by , for example , reading contemporary images or reading literature .
but over time , as an interpreter , you also have a rich knowledge of the composer you play more often , and it makes you feel easier and easier to think into it .
the composer becomes more and more of a friend that you live with .
his cause to write the piece will become more and more of my personal cause to play it .
now , as the notes represent everything but an accurate record of the composer &apos;s lying , but just a framework , i &apos;m now turning on this framework to restore it with meaning and meaning .
i then say , in my own words , what could be written between this framework .
i &apos;m going to explain what these sounds might have to mean .
maybe this is an artificial way of reading an e-book .
now for me and for the composer then and what you might mean now for him .
every tone , every phrase , gets a sense of it , because i feel it myself , because it comes out of my own right now .
it has to be coherent for me here and now , otherwise i can &apos;t convince my audience that this is my cause .
and the key indicator of this is the extinction of languages .
it &apos;s a very happy concert over and over again , if i can have the experience , the piece that i &apos;ve been working in advance for as long as i &apos;ve seen new experiences .
how to reexperience a happy new day over and over again , even though with the same rituals of life , stand up , breakfast , go to work , i do the same piece over and over again .
i &apos;ve gotten older one day , changing seasons , my pulse at night goes slower than in the morning , in a concert room , it takes longer for the sound to come back than at home .
i notice the breathing of the audience , consciously or unconsciously .
all of this is affecting me , and all this is also affecting my experience with the composition .
it &apos;s also wonderful when i &apos;m standing on stage with a duo partner , and we have the same wavelength .
and then the same thing happens in a good , friendly conversation .
i wouldn &apos;t recommend it .
you bring in a new idea , and in the same way , it &apos;s answered with a reaction .
it &apos;s exciting , because then things are happening that we haven &apos;t tried , and what you can &apos;t sample .
it &apos;s great fun to make music in this way , and then you as the audience have experienced how music communicates alive .
so each concert is a different concert .
i &apos;m never going to play as much as i do at that moment .
i can &apos;t play as much as i can in 20 years today .
there &apos;s going to be more life experience than i &apos;m going to have today , and therefore on my palette of music sound , much more color nuances , emotions and emotions than today .
sure , i &apos;m going to have thrown out some color pots , but i &apos;m going to get new ones .
have a nice example of this .
it was on a piano curriculum for music students in my beloved old teacher , professor jelt ude , a well-known beethoven specialist , concert pianist and slow professor of music college here in stuttgart .
this is a more realistic case . this is a copy of the guardian .
unfortunately , i was too young , so that he had already emerged when i finally started studying .
but i was fortunate enough to meet him very early on , at age three , three , and so at my school , i was on his classes .
i was 17 at the time when i went back to one of his classes and i played the last of the four ballads of chopin , a late work .
he asked me what the introduction of this ballade was for me .
this is such a commissioned part .
and in my youth , i said , expectation .
there he was , and he was like , like this ?
that has to be the difference in aging .
because for me , it means memory .
he was already over 60s .
every big picture is the beginning of a section .
well , with seventh ten , you still have dreams , but no major memories .
i play the piece again every few years today , and it has changed for me , even though not a single note has changed .
every time it &apos;s exciting , because every time i read something new .
one example of this from a very different area : monet painted the serose x-times .
it &apos;s always the same garden , but at different times of day , in different light .
he translated the seaweed in a different way , as he saw it , as they did at that moment on him .
his personal impressions of the seerosis .
the x-time interpretation of a piece is this comparable .
meanwhile , i &apos;m also older than chopin at the age of two and a half years when he wrote the piece .
he only lived nine-year-olds .
and that really gives you the pleasure and the good experience of reading a real paper copy of a magazine or a newspaper , which is a kind of medium with multiple scales .
and it &apos;s important for me to look back in the notes , even though i think i can memorize them .
to keep the twin , right with the composer .
because the notes are the only connection directly to him .
most of all , when he died .
now , how do you start talking about the language of music ?
i said , you know , it takes about as long as it takes for spoken language .
and a lot of the time , the music class is that you learn to read the notes .
you &apos;re basically learning to read before you &apos;re just talking one word .
you learn to find the notes on the instrument .
and then when all the fingers are moving in time , and right as they are in the notes , they come out with sound like music together .
we also did something at the corner of this particular issue of the guardian .
when that happens , the student gets the next hard piece .
there &apos;s hardly spoken about interpretation in early education .
all right , there &apos;s a presto on the front , that &apos;s a quick piece .
lento , slowly .
loud and light signs , f and b , etc .
most of you know that .
but even if you do these attacks , it still remains just a little technical .
and yet , it &apos;s still not an interpretation .
i wonder .
i wonder that a lot of times you forget something very fundamental .
we &apos;ve designed a false ad with very high resolution , which is much higher than a normal ad , and we &apos;ve added more content .
that in order to make music on the instrument , your own musical doing and feeling should be there before .
that &apos;s singing .
a child who didn &apos;t learn to sing , because he didn &apos;t pretend the parents , will not do it by himself .
it &apos;s like learning how to talk .
it &apos;s necessary to have its own experiences and ideas of music , and then to make it sound about another possibility , about an instrument , to make it sound .
people who have never forgotten have never felt instantaneous with their own body , as it is to form a sound .
designing a phrase with his own breath .
because the music instrument is actually the extension of our body .
our vocal chords for singing , our hands and feet for dancing .
so the hammer heads in the piano are the sequel of my fingers .
if you want to see the functions of this car , you can see it here .
the melody comes from the healthy and the rhythm from the dance .
the permanent coverage today with music is not promoting .
you don &apos;t need to make music yourself when you get bored .
it doesn &apos;t require whistling or singing a song anymore .
each of your own music is being made up when you &apos;re constantly sucked with music on the outside .
sure , there are some of you who say yes , but what do you do when i can &apos;t sing ?
the question i ask is , can you not sing , a , because you think you can &apos;t sing ?
or b , because they didn &apos;t learn to sing ?
both of them are not too late to start to find out whether they can &apos;t , or to learn , how to use these little muscles that put in the vocal cords , right .
because you can train that .
or other models , or even technical specifications .
or c , because they &apos;ve been told that they &apos;re intractable .
and i ask , how skilled was this diagnosis ?
have you taken a second or third opinion , as they say today , beautiful ?
or d , you don &apos;t like music , and therefore you want to have nix .
but what i would regret , because music is a beautiful , communicative thing .
but maybe you can reconcile them .
well , you see , in all cases , no one has to be an exceptional candidate .
but don &apos;t say , i don &apos;t understand anything about classical music .
i can &apos;t tell you whether it &apos;s good or bad .
and i say , but i &apos;m sure you can tell if you like it or not .
and this really raises these ideas to degrade these limitations to the place available on the screen .
because i don &apos;t think it says , i don &apos;t know if i like it , because i can &apos;t cook .
so , they don &apos;t give up food , just because they can &apos;t cook .
so you don &apos;t have to get into classical music either , because you don &apos;t play an instrument .
listen consciously and say whether you like it or not .
whether the music is too peppered or too sweet .
tell me what you feel .
over time , you get claims and you want to have some more spices there , or taste even fine differences .
now , why do i ask my audience to listen to it actively ?
because the music is a language , and a language is there to communicate .
an artwork you never look at has no power to work .
we hope that this no longer means pop-ups and other nonsense -- it shouldn &apos;t be necessary .
the food that was cooked by a chef or a chef must be eaten and not just looked at or recepted .
so please listen when a music is played .
it &apos;s not just a nice soundscape .
when each of you was born in this room , 6,000 languages were spoken on earth .
if in an environment where adults make active music or at least listen to active music , a child grows up , it &apos;s very easy for a music teacher to ask , what color do your flower have ?
can you play them in blue as well now ?
and the kid plays , after a memorial break , rather than a red flower before , a blue flower .
and this sounds very different than before .
so that was the very first start of a musical expression .
so the first step to an interpretation .
and what happens when you play a piece today that was originally written a hundred , two hundred , three hundred years ago ?
of course , the mapping is one of the really obvious applications for a technology like this .
meanwhile , the instruments have been evolving .
there were no piano at all in the moment , bachs as an instrument .
it just wasn &apos;t invented yet .
i think that the stream would have been thrilled if he had the sound possibilities of the modern piano today .
i can now make the sound that the stream has had on the modern wing sound , which a baroque cembalo can &apos;t do .
and beethoven is also known that he heard more than he had already become deaf .
today , a modern orchestra is able to play everything that an orchestra used to reject as unplayable at the time .
that &apos;s why composers rely on us interprets that reinvent the pieces .
so they can become audible , which they &apos;ve only imagined in the mind .
and also , what you would think of in the mind today .
and i really don &apos;t want to spend a lot of time here , except to say that we &apos;re also going to contribute to this area .
or what i &apos;m thinking of today , because what you might have thought .
thank you .
do you know what &apos;s tired of ?
have you ever been jewish ?
and how did that feel ?
suck .
i have a friend who drives a passerati .
and when i come , with my little v , w piesel and i get it wrong , that feeling comes up .
i &apos;m going to shoot something through my head .
i say , ulf , what are you going to need in this big car ?
but these are all the streets in the united states .
this is what loses half of his value in the first year .
and at all , you &apos;re working much less than me .
why do i have to afford little car like this ?
and then i come to mind immediately , that &apos;s unfair .
it &apos;s against justice .
and as i say the word &quot; justice , &quot; this unpleasant feeling is gone .
our organism has invented a great way to make such inconvenient feelings as envy to disappear .
you can also try this with words like revenge or revenues or something like that .
i want to explain to you about this mechanism today , or bring something that is unconsciously familiar to you .
the mechanism comes from the lie .
overwhelmed at the top of nasa , the exhaustible picture .
but don &apos;t think about the lie , as you may have heard , when people say , no one has the intention to build a wall .
and then you put rocks up so that he &apos;s going to shut them down .
on a lie like this , you see that the liar itself doesn &apos;t believe what he says .
it &apos;s easy to verify that it &apos;s very different in mind .
he just deceives you and not himself .
no , the lie that i &apos;m talking about has to do with fooling yourself .
you need this lie to keep a lie of life , to sustain a self-deception .
they can make them less easy , yes , check or make them fall .
they take time .
from that time , an anecdote you might know .
now let &apos;s take something else out .
the spanish painter pablo picasso once portrayed a woman .
this woman then complained that the portrait wouldn &apos;t look like her .
picasso replies , just wait .
it &apos;s getting more and more similar to you .
at this point , and when you laugh , you see how important this lie is and how much time it takes to experience something that artists can tell us very well .
because artists have a disrupted relationship with lying .
the artist shares something with you , and especially this lady , which she doesn &apos;t see when she just looks in the mirror .
the artist shares something with you in such a portrait that you &apos;re only familiar with when you look at this piece of art over and over again .
and then that unpleasant feeling disappears , and it might not look like you , and it &apos;s getting more and more similar to you .
here you have this mechanism that allows us to use the lie as a great invention to stabilize our lives .
this is actually live on the internet now . you can check it out .
and not only in art , but in the folk , in the mythology , it comes back up in stories .
you might know this idea of the lady who looked into the mirror every morning and asked him , who is the most beautiful in the whole country ?
one day , this mirror says , yes , there &apos;s a more beautiful one .
behind the seven mountains and so on .
and you also know how much hostility from this real arrival , even the mirror can &apos;t lie , comes from this real emergence .
but we should just be familiar with the fact that you can &apos;t tell a woman that there &apos;s a more beautiful one somewhere else .
this is what we need to do with politically correctness over and over again .
we need this lie at this point that holds us up with deception , without which we can &apos;t live .
we have not only in art , in folk poetry , but also in science , such great lies .
and there &apos;s this story of the wife of the bishop of worchester .
this is a project called photosynth that really connects two different technologies .
she heard about this book by charles darwin , the origin of species and the ancestry of man .
that the man should come from the monkey , and , yes , there would be a common ancestor between humans and monkeys .
and then she ran to her husband and said , &quot; that &apos;s not true what charles wrote . &quot;
the human being is supposed to come from the monkey or have a common ancestor .
no , no , it can &apos;t .
and if it &apos;s true , then we have to prevent people from knowing it .
why do we have to prevent people from knowing something if it &apos;s true ?
because without those lilies , we can &apos;t live .
because we have this self-deception , this feeling of being great , descent of the highest creatures , not of such a natural level , of something as unpredictable as an organism that still exists , comparable to a stone and other things , that &apos;s unsustainable to us .
so we can &apos;t do these things at all .
one is seadragon , and the other one is a very good research on computer vision , which is from noah snavely , a university student at washington , under the counseling of steve seitz at uw .
we need to prevent people from knowing things , especially when they &apos;re true .
so you can see how slowly this mechanism resolves and what the traces it leaves behind , which lead to something other than this great picture of ourselves , i want to give you another story .
a particularly beautiful story , i mean .
my wife told me .
she came from school one day , she &apos;s a teacher , and she told me about a student .
an autistic student .
she likes him especially because he has a tendency for sincerity .
and she asked him , what are your hobbies ?
and he says , well , i &apos;m at the fire department .
and because i &apos;m in the fire department , i &apos;m interested in pyrotechnical things .
and rick szeliski was done by microsoft research , a very good collaboration .
yes , you feel it when you &apos;re hotter at this point . there &apos;s something wrong .
i told my wife , whenever a human being in a moral judgment used the word &quot; word &quot; because , &quot; we should try to replace it with the word &quot; though . &quot;
do that once , and then you get the sentence .
even though i &apos;m in the fire department , i &apos;m interested in pyrotechnical things .
you feel that that &apos;s the real truth behind the arrival .
this is a little bub that doesn &apos;t care about the fire delusion .
he &apos;s interested in firemaking .
but there &apos;s no clubs that we can look around , where you learn how to make fire .
there &apos;s only the second best , the fire brigade .
there he was signing up .
so this is live on the internet . it &apos;s driven by seadragon .
and , you know , you don &apos;t say to your teacher that you like to put fires somewhere and you &apos;re happy when the fire lifts up afterwards .
no , it just looks a lot better when we show that we &apos;re in charge of eliminating the dangers that others can do when they just lay fire .
here you have this little mechanism .
this evidence that in the inside of the bub , he knew that he was actually related to the fire , but he can &apos;t say that out loud .
here you have this censorship between the unconscious and the conscious one that jumps right away , without you being able to do something about it , and the things that you know that they look very different , so designed that they can sound much better for you and others .
now , a language is not just the sum of the vocabulary or a series of grammar creatures .
so just as it happens , words that we use in the language of politically correct speech over and over again .
in fact , we know that something else is the case .
but we know that when we talk about that , social relations are very sensitive .
we can &apos;t just do that .
it &apos;s impossible to present these things in a society that &apos;s supposed to work .
you can see this when we create these kinds of views where we can penetrate through images and make this experience of multifold resolution .
now i want to show you what we &apos;ve found in my institute .
what logic this deception , this self-deception , the willingness , a different reality than the one that we actually know in the unconscious sense that it &apos;s valid to spread outside .
i want to give you two , maybe three examples of this .
the first example assumes what many of you know and some of you estimate , very few of you don &apos;t need at all .
i mean the soul .
what is the soul ?
the soul is something like this , says something like leibniz .
it &apos;s something that &apos;s not gavage , material nature .
and if you have people in front of you who are the persuasive belief that you have a soul , or you can also say , who believe that you &apos;ve been brought from the soul to life , think of it as if the soul is such a spiritual framework about you , not out of matter , you yourself just from meat and blood , something like that , to the earth , to the exhaustible , degradable , unimportant , yes , dead .
and now , of this soul , you think that somehow in this cloudy nature , in this funny nature , anima , it &apos;s called in latin , it &apos;s present in the air tune .
but the spatial orientation of the images is actually important here .
and if that air cap is then poured over human beings , it &apos;s filled with dignity , with spirit , with nature that can only live , with soul .
and then he can walk away .
that &apos;s the idea of how the soul works .
so it &apos;s going to come from the outside to the human .
so we &apos;re supposed to think of them as something that is supposed to be present for our lives .
and if you have this premise in mind , you understand the logic that we experience this happiness through a lie to improve our world .
because now you can apply a three-sentence .
you know three more from school .
this is now a three-sentence describing a logic .
that &apos;s the hardest part of my talk , by the way .
the computer vision algorithms have captured these images together so that they can see the real space in which these images that were all made near the grassi lakes in the canadian rockies , and you can see elements of stabilized slides or panoramic imaging , and these things were all spatially related to each other .
here you need some logic , but also the willingness to lie .
that &apos;s how to lie , that you can just use this logic wrong .
in this three-sentence , three sentences occur .
the first sentence is , claim , there &apos;s no soul .
so the second sentence is , if sound is right , it has no soul .
now there &apos;s a third sentence .
i &apos;ve highlighted him very much here .
a third sentence that immediately appears in people who have a strong sense of a soul .
they say , who has no soul , they &apos;re dead and they can &apos;t say anything .
and that &apos;s where you feel it .
i don &apos;t know if i have time to show you other environments .
here &apos;s the logic coming out in this , yes , in this deceptive talk .
you see it immediately .
the first two sentences , they &apos;re logically correct .
because i can say everything .
the logic doesn &apos;t make any statements about reality .
i can say , the chancer is a man .
and if i &apos;m right , the chancer is a man .
if i &apos;m not right , the chancer is not a man .
the logic doesn &apos;t make a point about what &apos;s true .
i can say everything .
there are those who are much more spatial .
but the key thing is , if i &apos;m right , it &apos;s true .
so when sound says , there &apos;s no soul .
second , if he &apos;s right , he has no soul .
these things are logically correct .
and now our conscious mind feels immediately , and you can do something with it .
it depends on a third sentence that has nothing to do with the first two sentences , and it pretends that the opposite of the first sentence is already proven and assumed .
because , in fact , we have to prove whether or not there &apos;s the soul .
but with this logic that it just uses , two sentences are logically correct , and a third , which looks like it has something to do with it , so we can save our livelihood .
so , we pretend it &apos;s impossible to live without a soul .
and we &apos;re very happy about this .
i &apos;d like to show you just one of the original data sets of noah , and this is from an early prototype of photosynth that we &apos;ve been working on first in summer to show you what i think is really the punchline behind this technology , photosynth technology , and this is not necessarily so obvious when you look at the environments that we have on the website .
we can continue to do these things in different examples .
in the present , for example , we have a very modern example that keeps on filling the daily newspapers .
now , you have to think of another philosophical subject , a permanent burning from philosophy .
that has to do with going back to the fourth century .
there was a scholar called johannes buridanus , and after that , the buridanian esel named .
the buridanian esel is an esel that is made of pure nature .
he doesn &apos;t have that soul .
that &apos;s a natural thing .
and if you place the exact act act in the middle between two equal hairs , then it starves .
because he doesn &apos;t know which haystack to go to first .
we had to worry about the lawyers and so on .
so it &apos;s right in the middle .
that &apos;s how nature is presented .
equally large forces with opposite signs of currency dissolve each other .
there &apos;s nothing happening at all .
it &apos;s only if you take another example , so if it immediately makes the haystack bigger , it doesn &apos;t need a sense and nothing to do it .
automatically , he goes to the right thought .
so if you have this idea that you &apos;re kind of driven in nature , determined by the bigger pile that &apos;s instantly attracted to you , you also quickly feel that there must be something like a free will .
and if we &apos;re already here in frankfurt , i remember the max planck institute for brain research .
there &apos;s a scholar called wolf singer , and sometimes he &apos;s told that wolf singer says there &apos;s no freedom of will .
now we can make the second sentence again , and we can say , if wolf singer is right , he has no freedom of will .
this is a reconstruction of the cathedral notre dame , which was only done in the computer with images of flickr , just give notre dame in flickr , and they &apos;re going to get images of men in t-shirts and on the university site , and so on . each of these orange cone represents a picture that was discovered as this model .
these sentences are absolutely logical and correct .
and what we can now read in the daily newspaper , almost every day , is in this third sentence .
it looks something like this , who has no freedom of will , can &apos;t be drawn to responsibility for his actions and claims , and therefore he &apos;s unsustainable .
again , they have it again .
now , you &apos;d have to prove that there &apos;s this kind of freedom of willingness .
but the logic of deception allows us to pretend that the first sentence of preceding is wrong , as if , of course , you have to take the opposite without evidence .
and now you can just , if you want to do anything yourself , if you want to test anything yourself , and most of all , if you want to make people happy , practice that courage to lie .
practice that , for example , if you meet a human being that you can say , there are no predictants .
and please don &apos;t use the german word for predictors , which is prophet .
you can &apos;t call that , that would be a little bit politically correct .
so these are all flickr images , and they &apos;re all spatial in this way in relation to each other .
say , there are no predictors .
immediately , they will experience one for which , of course , there are predictants , you can &apos;t prove that .
and they already have a problem .
because while you &apos;re busy making it clear that you can &apos;t prove that there are no predictants , the man is really happy .
he &apos;s very happy about this because he deceived them .
because he &apos;s led them to a fee that he doesn &apos;t even hold himself on .
because actually , this person is not interested in evidence at all .
he &apos;s just interested in keeping himself free from the need to prove that there are predictants .
so , in the way of shifting the burden of evidence , you &apos;re experiencing the brilliance of the lie .
and once again , if you have that kind of opportunity to feel that triple in other people , you do , because you will make others happy if you don &apos;t remind them of your self-lies that way .
and we can navigate in this very simple way .
thank you for your attention .
yes , good afternoon .
i allowed myself to ask lilly if i could mention them .
she &apos;s one of the organizers here from this great event , and she asked me if i wanted to give a talk here and give my idea .
a language is expression of the human mind .
i have to say , honestly , you got it , it was hard for me to talk about my idea at the beginning .
and i might want to introduce my island project to try to introduce you .
but it &apos;s , of course , the sum of a lot of ideas .
i probably belong , the two nice girls are still there , i &apos;m probably one of the generation that &apos;s been ordering this bad green image , because i &apos;ve already started studying machines in carriage , engineering , today , i think it &apos;s called kit .
and then i went to berlin in the middle of the &apos; 80s , because i wanted to make renewable energy , and i didn &apos;t have that in carriage .
there was leopoldshaped at the core research facility .
you know , i never thought i was going to end up working at microsoft .
they were all called kfa , and the kfa was called kfa .
the hot projects today .
because a good engineer either built great cars or nuclear power plants .
but this is kind of a doofes like &quot; n solar pendulum , &quot; which is kind of a hundred watts out of the square meter , which was a toy .
and in berlin , there was a crazy collectively of engineering .
i &apos;m grateful to the premium cola man that he rehabilitated the word again , because after the fall of the wall , you couldn &apos;t use the word anymore , because everything on the left was bad .
but in fact , in the &apos; 80s , it wasn &apos;t like that .
and it was just that there were self-administered alternative operations , and one of them was sitting in crossing mountains in the multi-courtyard where the evil was thought to be .
it was a place of terrorism , but it was called wobbly , and it made wind and sun energy , and that &apos;s where i started in the middle of the 80s .
and yes , a lot of what was said today , i &apos;m very touched by many , many beautiful expressions that i &apos;ve also lived through .
i &apos;m very grateful for the reception here .
i worked in the collective for 11 years , which was grassroots democracies .
we were 20 people .
if one didn &apos;t say no , the vetoprinzip , which has totally crashed you , and i &apos;ve spent 10 years trying to doubt whether i really wasted my great engineering study , because all my father &apos;s colleagues have always talked to him , you &apos;ve thrown the money out to the window in your kid .
it &apos;s about insanity .
and that was really , really bitter , and then you get into this phase , and that was a picture that was going on , where i wondered for 10 years , a thousand d marrow were still , basic wage , longevity in the collective , of course , whether that should be really great .
and i got it up to six and a half , and then , with friends , i became a co-founder of the company solon , who then became one of the largest cell manufacturers in the world with the spin-off q-cells .
a huge story , of course , but again , we have the problem of a growing company , and then we have two thousand , a small group , decided that we start small again and go back and dedicate ourselves to the next topic of the future , and that is , i think , and our behavior , again , it &apos;s equally crazy , and it starts again , that people say , what &apos;s the hop , that &apos;s not going to go , we &apos;re going to talk about .
and i brought you a project that i want to introduce to you now .
and the title of the talk was , yes , how to get to a hundred percent renewable .
and we just started asking a relatively simple story , where could you make sense of a memory today ?
and i guess you can see that these are many different kinds of cameras : everything is in the process of the mobile phone camera to professional slrs , a pretty large number of them all being put together in this environment .
on this island , this is the island of graciosa on the azors .
yes , that &apos;s the data .
there are four and a half thousand people living .
they have a 15 percent renewable energy rate today .
and the question is , why don &apos;t they have more ?
it just doesn &apos;t work technologically .
when they build more wind power to each other , the system starts to fail .
this is what i always tell the politicians when they occupy our facility in berlin adlershof .
they always say , why ?
we already have 20 percent in germany .
and if possible , i &apos;ll find some of the strange ones .
it can &apos;t be a problem at all .
but it &apos;s not true , we have seven percent in europe , and our net is physically the european .
if we had 20 percent in europe , we would have the same problems that people on this island have .
the question was simple , calculated that was two-thousandth of 2006 , and the first contacts with the island started , but just do the math .
how big a battery would have to be in order to get an island like this on 20 , 30 , 40 , 50 , maybe even seventy percent renewable .
and yes , i &apos;m going to go one slide further .
the conventional system looks like this all over the world .
by the way , about a hundred gigawatts of electrical power is built on the same basis in the world .
that &apos;s the performance of a hundred nuclear power plants , because it &apos;s very fast everywhere .
the energy hunger of the world that &apos;s happening is wiped with diesel , because you don &apos;t need permission .
many of them are covered by faces and so on .
this is fast .
you put a box like this .
and then it usually looks like this .
in the process , three of these are always waited , two are always waited .
yeah , that &apos;s the kind of thing that you see down there .
we also got very accurate data .
and the wind power plant , or the solar system , or whatever it is , is usually a back-up system or a system that can only feed in small quantities here .
our goal was to just say , okay .
the diesel is going to be backup and the wind , the sun is going to serve the burden so that they can map the larger percentage .
and if you want to go over 20 , 30 percent renewable energy , which is energy per year , not at the moment , you have to turn off the diesel .
somewhere here is a series of photographs -- here they are .
that is , at the moment , you have to make sure that renewables can , in a way , take over the whole net .
of course , you can only do that if you &apos;re manned in any way .
no one in the world has ever done that .
this is a little bit of a style , so you can also use your razors in the car over a little bit of a change judge .
people always ask me , what do you actually do research in adlershof ?
this is what &apos;s going on .
but if you want to put together several of these transjuries , and they &apos;re supposed to build a network , it &apos;s going to be extremely complicated .
and our goal was just , we wanted to get to 70-odd to ninety percent renewable , and then there &apos;s this rest , the last one , the last 10 , 20 percent renewable , which is going to be very , very expensive , and that won &apos;t work , that &apos;s going to be made out of batteries .
that &apos;s definitely going to be an energy carrier , which then , hydrogen , methane , power to gas , you or table , will be .
you have to go back to a seasonal memory and match winter summer and not just tag night .
this is actually a poster of notre dame , which was recorded properly .
we just wanted to know what about a normal , stink electrochemical battery .
how far do you get ?
and then we did a whole bunch of simulations .
and we simulated wind and sun and the burden , and we came to the conclusion , a very exciting result , that if you look at the conventional system , which takes about 50 cents a kilowatt-hour , you get out of about four cents a kilowatt-hour .
these were the very first calculations six years ago .
and then we said , okay .
well , if you &apos;re great , then we have a business model .
we &apos;re cheaper than the same system , if the same price goes up five percent a year .
and then we started negotiating with the insulanders .
what would everything have to be done ?
we can move from the poster to a physical view of this environment .
i &apos;ve negotiated with investors , i &apos;ve looked for new social leaders .
we were only five people then to rebuild one to rebuild the society .
and here &apos;s the representation again .
the brown is sort of the conventional system , the green is our system .
that our system also has a price increase , because we &apos;re going to do 20 percent with this , and we &apos;re not going through a price increase in the other things .
and the power-utility , which means the electric supply company on the island , we think that &apos;s great .
we also want to support , but we don &apos;t believe you can solve the technical problem .
and that &apos;s why we decided to build a hall in berlin , where we can sort of map the electric ratios of the island on scale one to three very precisely .
that means we &apos;ve been looking for the first time to find the largest battery in the world .
here it is .
the point here is that we can do things with the social environment . it &apos;s now collected data from all -- from the whole collective memory of what , visually , the earth looks like -- and everything is connected to each other .
it comes naturally from asia , in the case of japan .
and funny enough , in the &apos; 70s , she &apos;s been developed at bbc mannheim , now abb , and then she &apos;s been licensed to the japanese .
it &apos;s shown , it &apos;s a very , very large battery .
it has a megawatt performance , and it can perform for six hours , and that &apos;s the battery that we sort of got out of simulation technology .
and then they set them up .
we also have one of these same aggregate in the same size that it stands there , put it in the hall to actually simulate the entire dynamic behavior of the web , so in the hall it looks like this now , there &apos;s the back of the diesel , here &apos;s the big battery , here &apos;s the whole surrogate that we simulate the net with .
over here , we simulate the whole transmission system , the kilometers physics of cables , to sort of map the vibrational behavior on the net .
and here you can see the whole thing again .
we can also turn two hundred kilowatts of photovoltaics on the net .
here we see again , again , this is the diesel , again , the whole , single aggregate .
all these photographs are interconnected , and there &apos;s something that &apos;s bigger than the sum of the parts .
and what we &apos;ve done since two-thousand-odd was , by now , the hall was done , basically everything that was done between the individual system of electronics , in software , we &apos;ve done .
so we &apos;re not a battery manufacturer , but we &apos;re defining ourselves as a company that &apos;s only between the theme of the battery and the theme of the web and everything in between .
you have to communicate , of course , to the battery , you have to be able to communicate on the web , and that &apos;s very complicated .
the beauty of this island is that you can basically take everything from problems that we &apos;re going to get if we want to increase our percentage of renewables .
so this whole discussion , how is it going to be moving back and forth at the moment , turning energy , like going on , on the island , for example , we have five to 30 percent excess energy , so we &apos;re tilting the wind and the sun off .
it &apos;s a means by which the soul of a particular culture can access the material world .
natural light then offers smart grid .
so smart grid , a huge topic everywhere .
we can start to integrate electrical mobility on the island , ask around , because you can manage the burden .
that means , if you &apos;re seven percent renewable , you &apos;re not going to be able to do it without memory .
you can do it through n smart-grid , you can do it by building the nets , yes , you should definitely do it , you can hear the percentage , but you will never be able to completely do it on memory .
they get a model that comes from all over the world .
and that &apos;s the message .
that &apos;s why a lot of people get there , and they look at it , because you can see what problems you get .
if we turn off the diesel , you don &apos;t have this rotating mass that causes a certain amount of inertia on the net .
and our european network is basically just made out of loud masses of big power plants , wherever the wave is rotating all over europe .
we look in this net , we see the 50 hertz , and if it becomes a ninety comma nine hertz , we &apos;re going to catch up some valves , then again , a little bit of a merh steam goes in , then we come back up again .
that &apos;s the system .
and of course , that &apos;s incredible jobs .
if you tear that down somewhere , it takes a while .
the spinning reserve has at least 10 seconds to keep the net stable .
and in time , they can react to other things .
think of this as the continuation of the work of stephen lawlers on virtual earth .
if you don &apos;t have that anymore , this rotating mass , you have to replace that with performance electronics and electrochemistry .
and we can turn off two milliseconds with this big battery .
and you can see , there are enormous speeds .
and the message is , we need to get on these rotating masses , if we &apos;re going to sort of get our goals to 20 , 20 percent , 20 percent , 20 , 30 , 30 percent , and so on , if we want to get to them at all .
then we have to degrade our must-run capacity on the net .
must-run simply means the power plant is running to keep the frequency .
yes , that &apos;s a huge debate right now , building the coal power plants , because we don &apos;t , or gasturbines , because it &apos;s not possible .
and we &apos;re just trying to make sure that you can degrade the capacity , the must-run capacity , by also putting electrochemical storage on the net .
and luckily , there are a whole lot of studies now .
and for that purpose , people always come and look at our subject at what we &apos;re trying to do , sort of , our island level .
and this is something that grows through the complexity with which people use it , and whose use for the user is getting bigger and bigger .
and yes , the discussion is always about the question of how far can you take a piece of far future out there .
and many discussions that i &apos;ve had over the last six years have been similar to the discussion that i &apos;ve had in the last 30 years on photovoltaics .
don &apos;t go , it &apos;s insane , it &apos;s child &apos;s toy , it &apos;s all we &apos;ve calculated , it never calculates .
we have 30 gigawatts of photovoltaics in germany today .
this is predominant .
and i just assume that in the next 30 years , we will have the same capacity for electrochemical stores around the world .
it &apos;s very simple , it &apos;s going to come .
there &apos;s going to be a whole lot of resistance and arguments .
the beauty of this is that i &apos;ve kind of experienced now in the last two years , that the scientists are standing on my side .
we &apos;ve now got over 10 million funding projects to climb 10 megawatt-battery to the german net .
and of course , we all share the same adaptation needs .
their own photographs are signed up with metadata that another person has entered .
this is going to take place in the next april .
so , you also realize that there &apos;s a change going on , and it &apos;s from this defense to yes , to the idea that a hundred percent renewable is true .
and if you have a hundred percent renewable , it &apos;s kind of like a self-sustaining system .
so far , in discussions , these insulanders , they do autark , they have their own little net , which has nothing to do with our connection .
the question is very simple , if you make yourself completely independent of any fossil or uranium embodied energy that &apos;s being drilled out somewhere in the world and taken to them , you &apos;re an island .
then they &apos;re just using what &apos;s there with sun and wind , where they live .
and this is a little bit of our vision of a reasonable energy supply , and i &apos;m also grateful to cradle , that they said , use solar energy .
and that &apos;s what we do , and as far as we do , premium kola &apos;s talk , you can be again a collective and use solar energy , here &apos;s a little bit together .
and all right , i just want to encourage you , in the sense that you can be a little bit crazy and also have a vision .
and you really have to stay with it quite a bit , but i think it &apos;s going to happen .
if someone has taken the trouble and labeled all these sacred people and told them who they are , then my photograph is suddenly enriched by the notre dam cathedral with all this data , and i can use it as a starting point to dive into this room , into these metaverse , which uses photos of other people , and therefore make a kind of cross-model social experience using other people .
thank you .
when steve lopez , columnist of the los angeles times , went through the streets in the center of los angeles , he heard a wonderful music .
she came from a man , an african-american , sympathetic , rau , homeless , who played on a violin that only had two strings .
many of you will know the story , because from steves article on it later , a book that was filmed , robert downey junior , when steve lopez and jamie foxx was a nathaniel anthony ayers , the contrabassistant who studied at juilliard conservatory , and whose promising career , tragically , was finished early by his paranoid schizophrenia .
nathaniel left juilliard , suffered a breakdown , and 30 years later , he lived as homeless on the streets of skid row at the center of los angeles .
i recommend all of you to read steves &apos; book or look at the film , so that not only do you understand the wonderful connectedness that happened between these two men , but also how music helped make that connection , and how it ended up being the instrument when that word game is allowed to get the mithalf , nathaniel away from the street .
i met mr ayers in 2008 , two years ago , at the walt disney concert hall .
he had just heard a demo of beethoven &apos;s first and fourth symphony , and he came behind the stage to imagine .
he talked in a very hot and social tone about yo-yo ma and hillary clinton and how the dodgers would never get into the baseball world series , and all of that because of the danish passage of the first violin in the last sentence of beethoven &apos;s fourth symphony .
we got to talk about music , and a few days later , i got an email saying that nathaniel was interested in self-education .
and of course , by the way , all of this is the immense rich virtual models of every interesting part of the earth that has not only been preserved by overflights or satellite images and so on , but by collective memory .
i have to mention that nathaniel rejected a medical treatment , because he had already been treated with electroshocks and thorazine and handcuffs , a trauma that tracked him all his life .
as a result , he &apos;s now particularly vulnerable to these schizophrenic phases , and they &apos;re sometimes so bad , and he &apos;s disappearing for days , going around the streets of skid row , always exposed to this horror and the torture source of his own mind .
and in the same way that a rice stage , nathaniel was when we first started our first lesson in the walt disney hall , and he had this miserable flicker in his eyes and completely lost it .
he talked about invisible demons and smoke and how someone wanted to poison him in the sleep .
i was afraid , not because of my opinion , but i was afraid that i could lose him , that he could sink into one of his states , and that i could destroy his relationship to the violin , if i started talking about pitches and arpeggios and other exciting forms of didactic gardening .
so i just started playing .
i played the first sentence of beethoven &apos;s violin concert .
and as i was playing , i realized that in nathania &apos;s eyes , a complete change was happening .
it was as if he was standing under the influence of an invisible doctor , a chemical reaction that catalyst was my game .
nathaniels manic anger turned into understanding , into a quiet curiosity and grace .
thank you .
and like a miracle , he took his violin and started playing some excerpts from violin concerts after hearing , and then asked me to end up playing them : mendelhi &apos;s son , tschaikovski , sibelius .
we then started talking about music from bach to beethoven , brahms , bruckers and all the other bs , from bartok to esa pecca .
and i realized that it wasn &apos;t just an encyclopedic knowledge of music , but it also connected him to a very close personal relationship .
he talked about her with a passion and understanding that i otherwise know of only my colleagues in the philharmony of los angeles .
by playing music and talking about music , this paranoid , confused man who had just moved through the streets of los angeles had become a loving , educated , excellent , educated musician in juilliard .
music is medicine . music changes us .
for nathaniel , music means mental health .
because music allows him to reform his thoughts and delusions with his imagination and creativity into something real .
and so he escapes his agonizing conditions .
i understood that this was the nature of art .
i understand you right ? your software allows for a certain time , within the next few years , all the images that someone in the world will be used together , basically , to be connected ?
this is why we make music : so that we can create something that is deep inside of all of us , our emotions , through our artistic lens , through our creativity to reality .
and the reality of that expression reaches all of us , and moves , inspired and united .
what nathaniel did , the music brought him back to a community of friends .
the redemption power of music brought him back to a family of musicians who understood him , who recognized his talent and paid attention .
and i &apos;ll keep playing with nathaniel , whether in the walt disney concert hall or skid row , because he reminds me of why i became a musician .
thank you .
bruno giussani : thank you very much . thank you .
robert gupta .
robert gupta : i want to play something that i &apos;ve been inevitably stolen the cellist .
i hope you &apos;ll forgive me .
yeah . it does nothing but discover .
so i &apos;ve known a lot of fish in my life .
i just loved two .
this first one , this was more like a passionate monkey .
it was a beautiful fish , tasty , good consistency , durable , a bestseller on the menu .
what a fish .
even better , he was raised in aquaculture after the most supposedly highest standards of sustainability .
so you could feel comfortable selling it .
i had a relationship with this beauty over several months .
one day , the head of the company called and asked if i could talk at an event about the sustainability of the farm .
&quot; of course , &quot; i said .
if you want to make them hyperlinks between the images .
here was a company trying to solve what this unimaginable problem has become for our chefs . how do we keep fish on our menu ?
in the last 50 years , we &apos;ve fished the ocean as we &apos;ve beaten the forests .
it &apos;s hard to overestimate the destruction .
every language is like an old-growth forest of the mind , a turning point , an idea , an ecosystem of spiritual possibilities .
90 percent of the big fish that we love , the tunas , the healing butte , the salmon fish , the swordfish , they have collapsed .
there &apos;s almost nothing left .
so , i guess , or bad aquaculture , fisheries will be part of our future .
many arguments against it . fisheries are polluting the environment , most of them anyway , and they &apos;re inefficient , we take tuna . a big disadvantage .
he has a food processing from 15 to one .
that is , 15 pounds of wildfish are required to get a pound of tuna .
not very sustainable .
and she does this because of the content in the images .
it doesn &apos;t taste very good either .
so here was finally a company trying to do it right .
i wanted to support them .
the day before the event , i called the head of public work for the company .
let &apos;s call it don .
&quot; don , &quot; i said , &quot; just to get the facts right , you &apos;re famous for growing so far out in the sea that you don &apos;t pollution the environment . &quot;
&quot; that &apos;s true , &quot; he said . &quot; we are so far out that the waste is distributed from our fish , not concentrated . &quot;
and then he added , &quot; we &apos;re basically a world of his own .
this food processing from 2.5 to one , &quot; he said .
&quot; the best in the industry . &quot;
and that &apos;s really exciting when you think about the abundance of the semantic information that many of these images have .
2.5 to one , great .
&quot; 2.5 to one ? what do you feed ? &quot;
&quot; sustainable proteins , &quot; he said .
&quot; great , &quot; i said . set up .
and that night , i was lying in bed thinking , what the hell is a sustainable protein ?
so the next day , just before the event , i called , don .
i said , &quot; don , what are sustainable proteins ? &quot;
he said he didn &apos;t know . he &apos;s going to ask .
well , i was telephone with a few people in the company , and no one could give me a proper answer , until finally i was telephone with the leading biologist .
we also call it don .
like if you take a web search for pictures , where you type in sentences and the text of the website contains a lot of information about what image this is .
&quot; don , &quot; i said , &quot; what are sustainable proteins ? &quot;
well , he mentioned some algae and some fish meals , and then he said , chicken pellets .
i said , &quot; chicken pellets ? &quot;
he said , &quot; yes , feathers , skin , bone flour , crust , dried and processed into food . &quot;
i said , &quot; what percentage of your food is chicken ? &quot;
in the presumption of maybe two percent .
&quot; well , that &apos;s about 30 percent , &quot; he said .
i said , &quot; don &apos;t , what &apos;s sustainable about feeding chicken on fish ? &quot;
there was a long pause in the line , and he said , &quot; there &apos;s just too much chicken in the world . &quot;
i fell in love with this fish .
but what if the image links you to all your images ?
no , not because i &apos;m a self-righteous and good person .
that &apos;s actually me .
no , i actually fell in love with this fish , because , i swear to god who &apos;s been sniffing for chicken after this conversation .
this second fish , this is a different kind of love story .
it &apos;s the romantic way , the way in which you know your fish better , you love the fish more .
i first ate him in a restaurant in southern spain .
a friend of mine had been talking about this fish for a long time .
it &apos;s kind of wired us up .
he came to the table with a bright , almost dazzling white color .
the chef had cooked him .
then the scope of the semantic cross-section and the abundance that comes out of it is really enormous . it &apos;s a classic network effect .
hold twice .
amazingly , he was still delicious .
who can make a fish taste so well after it &apos;s been cooked ?
i can &apos;t , but this guy can .
let &apos;s call him miguel . he &apos;s actually called miguel .
and no , he didn &apos;t cook the fish , and he &apos;s not a chef , at least in the way that you and i understand .
he &apos;s a biologist at veta la palma .
this is a fish elevator in the southwestern corner of spain .
it &apos;s near the coin of the river of guadalquivir .
until the 1980s , the farm was in the hands of argentina .
blaise , that &apos;s really incredible . heartfelt congratulations .
they were growing meat cattle on what was basically wetlands .
they did it by dewatering the country .
they built this complicated consequence of channels , and they pushed water out of the country and out into the river .
well , they couldn &apos;t make it work , not economically .
and ecologically , it was a disaster .
it killed about 90 percent of the birds , which is a lot of birds for this place .
and so in 1982 , a spanish company with environmental awareness bought the country .
what did they do ?
they have reversed the flow of water .
they literally transformed the lever .
thank you very much .
instead of pushing the water out , they used the channels to pull the water back in .
they flew the channels .
they created a 11,000 hectares of fish -- bark , seaweed , shrimp , aal -- and then miguel and his company completely reversed the ecological destruction .
the farm is incredible .
i mean , you &apos;ve never seen anything like that .
they stare out at the horizon that &apos;s a million miles away , and all you see are cursed channels and that dense , lush march .
i wasn &apos;t there long ago with miguel .
he &apos;s an incredible guy , three parts charles darwin and a part of &quot; a crocodile to kiss . &quot;
okay ? there we were , and we were fighting through the wetlands , and i was crying and sweating , and matsch up to my knees , and miguel is quietly holding a biology lecture .
this is him highlighting a rare equtaar .
i &apos;m going to tell you a few things from my book that , i hope , are in conjunction with other things that you &apos;ve already heard , and i &apos;m going to try to make some connections myself if they haven &apos;t noticed them .
now he &apos;s mentioning the mineral needs of phytoplankton .
and here , he sees a pattern of bundles that reminds him of the tanzanian giraffe .
it turns out that miguel has spent most of his career in mikumi national park in africa .
i asked him how he became such a fish expert .
he said , &quot; fish ? i don &apos;t know about fish .
i &apos;m an expert in relationships . &quot;
and then he goes and falls into more of the talk of rare birds and algae and strange water plants .
and don &apos;t get me wrong , which was really fascinating , you know , the biotic community of unplugged , like that .
it &apos;s great , but i was in love .
and my head got weak about this cooked piece of delicious fish that i had on the evening .
i want to start with what i call official dogma .
so i interrupted it . i said , &quot; miguel , how come your fish taste so good ? &quot;
he pointed at the algae .
&quot; i know , boy , the algae , the phytoplankton , the relationships , that &apos;s incredible .
but what do your fish eat ?
what &apos;s the food processing ? &quot;
well , he continues to tell me that it &apos;s such a rich system that the fish eat what they would eat in the wild .
the plant biomass , the phytoplankton , the zooplankton , is what the fish feed .
the system is so healthy , it &apos;s completely self-neglecting .
there &apos;s no food .
depending on a farm that doesn &apos;t feed its animals ?
the official dogma of what ?
later on , i was driving around on this site with miguel , and i asked him , i said , &quot; for a place that seems so natural , &quot; unlike any farm i &apos;d ever been on , &quot; how do you measure success ? &quot;
at that moment , it was as if a film director had demanded a shift in the stage .
and we got around the corner , and we got the most incredible look , thousands and thousands of pink flamingos , literally a pinker carpet , so far as the eye .
&quot; that &apos;s success , &quot; he said .
and of these 6,000 languages today , while we &apos;re sitting here in monterey , exactly half of them are not whispered into the ears of children .
&quot; look at your bellies , pink .
they &apos;re bad . &quot;
bad ? i was totally confused .
i said , &quot; miguel , don &apos;t you get your fish ? &quot;
&quot; yes , &quot; he said .
&quot; we &apos;re losing 20 percent of our fish and fish eggs to the birds .
the official belief of all western industrialized societies .
well , last year , on this site , 600,000 birds , more than 250 different species .
it &apos;s now become the largest and one of the most important private bird reserves in all of europe .
i said , &quot; miguel , isn &apos;t a well-thriving bird population the last thing you want to have on a fish lift ? &quot;
he was shaking his head , no .
he said , &quot; we &apos;re growing extensively , not intense .
this is an ecological network .
the flamingos eat the shrimp .
the shrimp eats the phytoplankton .
so the pink the belly is better the system . &quot;
okay , let &apos;s rethink that . a farm that doesn &apos;t feed its animals and a farm that measures its success in the health of their predators .
the official dogma works this way : when our goal is to maximize our citizens &apos; well-being , it &apos;s mostly through maximizing the freedom of the individual .
a fish elevator , but also a bird reserve .
oh , and by the way , these flamingos from the beginning shouldn &apos;t even be there .
they breed in a city 240 kilometers away , where the ground nature is better for nest maintenance .
every morning , they fly 240 kilometers to the farm .
and every night they fly back 240 kilometers .
they do that because they can follow the strictly white line on the highway a92 .
seriously .
i had a kind of journey of the penguins , so i looked at miguel .
i said , &quot; miguel , are you flying 240 miles to the farm and then flying back 240 kilometers in the evening ?
do you do that for the kids ? &quot;
the reason for this is that freedom is good in itself , valuable , meaningful , an unsustainable condition for the human .
he looked at me as if i had just quoted a song by whitney houston .
he said , &quot; no . you do that because the food is better . &quot;
i didn &apos;t mention the skin of my beloved fish that was delicious , and i don &apos;t like fish skin . i don &apos;t like it sucked . i don &apos;t like it crunchy .
it &apos;s this haunting , coated taste .
i almost never cook with it .
and yet , when i tried her in this restaurant in southern spain , she didn &apos;t look for fish skin at all .
it tasted sweet and pure as if you were to take a bite from the ocean .
i mentioned this to miguel , and he nodded .
he said , &quot; the skin looks like a sponge .
she &apos;s the last defense before something goes into the body .
if people have freedom , then each of us is about doing the things that maximize our common good and nobody has to decide for us .
it &apos;s evolved over the course of evolution to suck up uncleaners . &quot;
and then he said , &quot; but our water doesn &apos;t have any disputes . &quot;
okay . a farm that doesn &apos;t feed their fish , a farm that measures their success in the success of their predators .
and then i realized , when he says , a farm that doesn &apos;t have any disputes , it drives enormous , because the water that flows through this farm comes in from the river of guadalquivir .
it &apos;s a river that leads all the things that rivers now tend to lead them , chemical pollutants , abundance of pest control .
and when it has fought through the system , and this leaves the water clean than it has come in .
the system is so healthy , it cleans the water .
so not just a farm that feeds its animals , not only a farm that measures their success in the health of their predators , but a farm that is literally a water treatment plant , and not just for these fish , but also for you and me .
because when the water flows out , it goes down in the atlantic .
a drop in the ocean , i know , but i take it , and you should do that , because that love story , however romantic , is also inferior .
the way to maximize freedom is to maximize choice .
you might say that it &apos;s a recipe for the future of good food , whether we &apos;re talking about bark or meat cattle .
what we need now is a radical new concept of agriculture , of one where food actually tastes good .
but for a lot of people , that &apos;s a little too radical .
we &apos;re not realists , we &apos;re more enjoyable . we &apos;re lovers .
we love weekly markets . we love small family businesses . we talk about local food . we eat bio .
and if you say that these are the things that ensure the future of good food , somebody stands up somewhere and says , &quot; hey guys , i love pink flamingos , but how are you going to feed the world ?
how will they feed the world ? &quot;
can i be honest ?
i don &apos;t like that question .
no , not because we &apos;re producing calories already enough to feed the world more than just .
the more choices people have , the more freedom they have , and the more freedom they have , the more common they have .
a billion people are going to starve today .
one billion -- that &apos;s more than ever before -- because of crasser inequalities in distribution , not overall production .
now , i don &apos;t like this question , because it has determined the logic of our food system for the last 50 years .
the feeding grain of plant feeders , pest control , monocultures , chemicals to the earth , chickens of fish , and all the time the agricultural industry just asked , &quot; if we feed more people cheaper , how awful can that be ? &quot;
that was the cause . it was the legitimacy . it was the business plan of american agriculture .
we should call them what it is , a commercial in wrapping , a commercial that quickly ecological capital that allows that production to happen .
this is not a business , and it &apos;s not agriculture .
our corn chamber is threatened today , not because of degrading ingredients , but because of degrading resources .
not by the latest mice mantis and tractor inventions , but by fertile land , not by pumping , but by fresh water , not by chainsaw , but by forests , and not by fishing boats and nets , but by fish in the sea .
you want to feed the world ?
this is , i think , so deeply embedded in our water supply that it wouldn &apos;t make any sense to question it .
let &apos;s start with the question : how are we going to feed ourselves ?
or better , how can we create conditions that enable every community to feed itself ?
to do that , don &apos;t look at the agricultural model for the future .
it &apos;s really old , and it &apos;s done .
capital , chemistry and machines are in it , and it never made anything really good to eat .
instead , let &apos;s look at the ecological model .
that &apos;s what goes back to two billion years of labor .
look at miguel , farmers like miguel .
businesses that are not worlds for themselves , businesses that are restoring , instead of using , businesses that grow extensively , rather than just intense , farmers that are not just generators , but experts for relationships .
because they are the ones who are also experts in flavor .
and it &apos;s also deeply rooted in our lives .
and if i &apos;m really honest , you &apos;re a better chef than i &apos;ll ever be .
you know , i &apos;m right , because if that &apos;s the future of good food , it will be delicious .
thank you .
now , if i want to bring to you one thing today , it &apos;s that the total amount of data that we consume is bigger than the sum of their parts , and instead of thinking about information overload , i want you to think about how we can use information so that patterns can come , and we see trends that would not have otherwise become visible .
so what we see here is a typical mortality diagram of age .
the program that i use here is a little experiment .
it &apos;s called pivot , and what i can do with pivot is i can filter after a particular cause of death , say accidents .
and immediately i see another pattern that comes out .
and that &apos;s because , in the middle , people here are the most active , and they &apos;re most fragile over here .
we can go one step further and rearrange the data and see that cycles and cancer are the usual suspects , but not for everyone .
i &apos;m going to give you some examples of what makes modern progress possible .
now , if we go on and we look for age , say , 40 years or more , we see that accidents are actually the main thing that people should worry about .
and if you go further , this is particularly true in men .
so you can see that looking at information and data in this way is very much reminiscent of swimming in a living information graph .
and if we can do this for raw data , why not for content itself ?
what we have here are the cover images of every single sports illustrated that have ever been printed .
it &apos;s all here . it &apos;s all online .
you can test it after my talk in your rooms .
with pivot , you can dive into a decade .
you can dive into a particular year .
you can jump directly to a particular issue .
this is my supermarket . no big one .
so when i look here , i see the athletes that appear in this issue and the sports species .
i &apos;m a lance armstrong fan , so i click on this , which shows me all the spending in which lance armstrong is mentioned .
now , if i just want to get a bigger overview , i could think , &quot; ok , what if i look at the theme of biking ? &quot;
so i &apos;m going to take a step back , and i &apos;m going to take the perspective .
now i see greg lemond .
and so you get an idea that if you go through this kind of information , target , broader , zoom out , you don &apos;t just search or surf .
you do something that &apos;s actually a little bit different .
they &apos;re no longer taught to young children , which means that if nothing is done , they &apos;re actually dead .
it &apos;s something in between , and we think it changes the way information can be used .
so i want to take this idea a little bit further with about what &apos;s a little crazy .
what we &apos;ve done here is we &apos;ve taken every single wikipediaset and reduced it to a small summary .
i just want to say a little bit about salatdressing .
the summary contains a short overview and a symbol of the area that it comes from .
i &apos;m just showing the top 500 of the most popular wikipediases .
but even in this limited view , we can do a lot of things .
immediately , we get a sense of the topics that are most popular on wikipedia .
i &apos;m going to choose the issue of government .
now , after i &apos;ve chosen government , i realize that the wikipediacekeepers that are most covered in time magazine &quot; people of the year . &quot;
this is really important , because this is a realization that is not in a single wikipediaset .
it &apos;s only to recognize when you step back and look at the whole thing .
looking at one of these summaries , i can then go into the theme of time magazine &quot; people of the year , &quot; and see everybody together .
now , when i look at all these people , i realize that the majority of them are government officials , some of them come from science , some , even less , come from the economy . here &apos;s my boss , and one comes from the music .
there are 175 dressings in my supermarket , if she doesn &apos;t count the 10 different extra olive oil and 12 balsamico-essig you could buy to make a large number of own salad dessings , in the unlikely case that none of the 175 is right in the store for her .
and interestingly , bono is also a ted prize winner .
so we can jump now and look at all the ted prize winners .
you can see , we &apos;re surfing the web for the first time as if it &apos;s actually a web , not just from page to page , but much more abstract .
and so i want to show you something else about what a little surprise might be .
i &apos;m just showing you the new york times website here .
pivot , this application -- i don &apos;t want to call it a browser ; it &apos;s really not a browser , but you can look at websites with it -- and we bring this zooming technology to every single website like this .
so i can take a step back and jump right to a specific section .
that &apos;s important because you can only look at websites in this way , the whole internet course , in the same way .
so i can zoom in in on a particular time frame .
here &apos;s the state of the entire demonstration that i &apos;ve been holding to this .
so this is what the supermarket is like .
and i can sort of bring back everything i &apos;ve been looking at today .
and , if i take a step out and look at everything , i can rearrange my trajectory , perhaps , for my search past , here , i &apos;ve been looking for nepotistic , here for bing , or here for live labs .
and from here , i can go into the page and call it up again .
it &apos;s a metaphor that &apos;s used over and over again , and every time it makes the whole picture bigger than the sum of the data .
right now , in this world , we think that data is a curse .
we &apos;re talking about the curse of information abundance .
we talk about &quot; drowning in information . &quot;
what if we could turn this situation around and turn the internet upside down , so that instead of going from one to the other , we can start to go from many things to many things , and see patterns that would have remained hidden ?
if we can do that , then that data trap , maybe a new source of information becomes meaningful .
and , instead of just moving into information , we can get knowledge of it .
and then you go to the consumer electronics business to put together a stereo -- loudspeakers , cd players , a cassette player , radio , amplifier . and in this one electronics business , there are so many stereo facilities .
and if we know , we might even be able to draw wisdom from it .
so i &apos;ll stop , thank you very much .
i grew up with a polite portion of science fiction .
in my school time , i went to school with the bus , one hour per day .
and my nose was always in a book , a science fiction book that kidnapped my mind in other worlds , and in a narrative , satisfied my deep sitting in me , insatiable curiosity .
and this curiosity also showed that whenever i wasn &apos;t in school , i would travel through the forests , migrate and collect &quot; samples , frogs and snakes and beetles and pond water , bring it home and look at under the microscope .
i was absolutely enthusiastic , you know .
it was always about trying to understand the world and expose the limits of the possible .
and my love of science fiction seemed to reflect in my environment , because back in the late &apos; 60s , we flew to the moon and explored the deep sea .
jacques cousteau came into our living room with his fascinating shows that showed us animals and places and a world of wonder that we could never have imagined before .
we can assemble 6.5 million different stereo facilities from the components that are offered in this one business .
i think that &apos;s a good fit on that science fiction role .
and i was an artist .
i could draw . i could paint .
and since there was no video games or this oversaw with computer-generated movies or all the imagery in the media landscape , i had to create the images in my head .
we all had to . when we read a book as kids , we took the description of the author and we projected it on the canvas in our heads .
my reaction was to draw and paint aliens , alien worlds , robots , spacecraft and all that kind of thing .
in math class , i was constantly caught by the teacher , as i was , hiding behind the textbook .
creativity had to sort of get out .
and something interesting happened , because what fascinated me about jacques cousteaus &apos;s shows was the idea of a completely unknown world here on our earth .
i certainly would never get to an alien world with a spaceship , and that seemed quite unlikely to me .
you have to admit that this is a big choice .
but here was a world that i could actually walk into , here on earth , and it was as fascinating and as exotic as all i had always imagined when i read these books .
so i decided , when i was 15 , i was going to be diver .
the only problem with this was that i lived in a small village in canada , 1,000 kilometers away from the nearest ocean .
but i didn &apos;t let myself discourage .
i annoyed my father until he finally got a diving school in buffalo , new york , just on the other side of the border where we lived .
i made my dive line in a ymca pool in the middle of the winter in buffalo , new york .
but the ocean , a real ocean , i only got to face two years later , when we moved to california .
since , in the 40 years that have been striking , i &apos;ve spent about 3,000 hours underwater now , 500 hours in submersibles .
and i &apos;ve learned that the world of the deep sea , even in the shallow ocean , is as rich in fascinating life as we can &apos;t imagine .
nature &apos;s imagination doesn &apos;t know the limits , as opposed to our own noisy human imagination .
in other areas -- the world of communication .
to this day , i feel the deepest awe for what i see on my dives .
and my love for the ocean is holding with the same intensity as eh and ever .
so when i went to a job as an adult , it was to do filmmaking .
that seemed the best way to tell my inner urge to tell stories , with my need to create images , to unite .
as a child , i was drawing comic books all the time and so on .
so movies were the way to bring together images and stories , and that matched .
of course , the stories that i chose were from the science fiction area : &quot; terminator , &quot; &quot; &quot; aliens , &quot; and &quot; abyss . &quot;
at &quot; abyss , &quot; i was able to connect my love for the underwater world and diving with filmmaking .
so my two passions were kind of intertwined .
something interesting happened in &quot; abyss &quot; : to solve a narrative problem in this film -- and that is , we had to create a kind of liquid water creature -- we returned to computer-generated animation , cg .
there was a time when i was a boy , you could have every phone provider you wanted as long as it came from ma bell .
and what came out was the first computer-generated software surfaces character ever to see in a movie .
now , the film didn &apos;t bring in any money , and he was just playing his cost of production , but i noticed something fascinating : the audience around the world was like hypnotized by the magic that was going on .
according to arthur clarke &apos;s law , you know , the advanced technology and magic are no longer different from each other .
so they saw something magical .
and i found this incredibly exciting .
and i thought , &quot; wow , it &apos;s got to be involved in film art . &quot;
so we went to &quot; terminator 2 , &quot; my next film , much further .
together with ilm , we created the guy from liquid metal , and the success depended on how this effect would come about .
and it worked . again , we had created something magical , and the effect in the audience was the same , but we &apos;ve already played a little bit more money with the movie .
from these two experiences , there was a whole new world , a whole new world of creativity for filmmakers .
they rented your phone . they didn &apos;t buy it .
so i started a company with my good friend stan winston , who was the best makeup and creature-designer at the time , called digital domain .
the basic idea of this company was to skip the phase of analog processes with optical printers , etc . , and start with digital productions .
that &apos;s what we did , and then we got a competitive advantage for a while .
but in the mid- &apos; 90s , we realized that in the creature-and design -- which is what we actually started the company for -- was too slow .
i had written this piece , &quot; avatar , &quot; which was supposed to push the scales in things like visual effects and computer-generated effects in whole new heights , with realistic human , expressive characters made using cg , and the main characters should all be cg . and the world should be cg .
but the measuring bar was pretty much backwards , and people in my company told me that we were not able to do that at all preliminary times .
so i shifted this , and i made this other film about the big ship that &apos;s going on .
i sold this as &quot; romeo and julia on a ship , &quot; and it became a love film of epic extent , a passionate film .
but in secret , i really wanted to go down to the real wreck of the titanic .
that &apos;s why i made the film .
one consequence of that was that the telephone was never broken .
that &apos;s the truth . the studio didn &apos;t know .
but i convinced you , by saying , &quot; we &apos;re diving to the wreck . we &apos;re filming the real wreck .
we &apos;re going to show it in the opening sequence of the film .
that &apos;s incredibly important . it &apos;s a good follower for marketing . &quot;
and i convinced them to fund an expedition .
what could be more lonely than being surrounded by silence , being one of the last people in your language , having no way to pass on the wisdom of the ancestors , or to expect the hope of children ?
sounds crazy . but it goes back to the fact that your imagination can create a reality .
we actually created a reality six months later , where i found myself in a russian dive boat , four kilometers below the surface of the north atlantic , and looked at the real titanic through a bulleye .
this was not a film , not a hd , this was real .
so , that really blew my mind .
and the preparation for this was enormous . we had to build cameras and shell and all kinds of things .
these days are over .
and it occurred to me how much these deep sea diets looked like a space mission .
well , they were also high-tech , high-tech , high-tech planning .
you get into this capsule , and then you float down into this dark , hostile environment where there &apos;s no hope for rescue , if you can &apos;t do it yourself back .
and i thought , &quot; wow , that &apos;s as if i was in a science fiction movie .
that &apos;s really cool . &quot;
i was really obsessed with the study of the deep sea .
anyway , the part that has to do with curiosity and science , it was all . it was adventure , it was curiosity . it was imagination .
and it was an experience that could not give me hollywood .
because , you know , i could imagine a creature that we could then design a visual effect for , but i couldn &apos;t imagine what i was going to see outside the window .
in some of the following expeditions , i &apos;ve seen creatures in thermal vents , and sometimes things that i &apos;d never seen before , sometimes things that nobody had ever seen before , and for the science at the time that we saw , there were no words at all .
we now have almost an infinite choice of telephones , especially in the world of mobile phones .
so that really flipped me around , and i wanted more .
and so i made a slightly unusual decision .
after the success of &quot; titanic , &quot; i said , &quot; okay , i want to put my main job as a filmmaker in hollywood on ice and become a full-time researcher for a while . &quot;
and then we started diving to the bismarck , and we studied it with robotic experiences .
we went back to the wreck of the titanic .
we took little robots that we built that wrapped a fiberglass cable .
our intention was to go in and look at the inside of the ship , which had never been done before .
no one had ever explored the inside of the wreck . you didn &apos;t have any means to do it , so we developed the technology we needed .
now , i &apos;m sitting on the deck of the titanic , in a submersible , and i &apos;m looking at planks that are quite similar to these brakes , and i know that once the band has played there .
and i fly through the ship with a little robotic experience .
these are the mobile phones of the future .
i actually only do it , but my consciousness is within the vehicle .
it felt like i was physically in the ship wreck of the titanic .
this was the surreal shape of a déjyo vu that i &apos;ve ever experienced , because before i bow around a corner , i always knew what was about to appear in the light cone of the vehicle , because i had run over the film set for months when we were making the film .
because the set was an accurate copy of the ship &apos;s blueprints .
so this was a very strange experience .
she made me realize this telepresence experience that you &apos;re using robotic avatars , so that you can put your own consciousness into the vehicle , into this other form of existence .
it was really , really profound .
and maybe a little bit of a look at what might happen in a few decades , if you have cyborg bodies to explore or do other things , in all kinds of post-humane futures that i can think of as a science fiction fan .
so after these expeditions , we started to really appreciate what we had seen down there , like these deep sea source , where we saw these incredibly amazing animals , these are sort of aliens , but here on earth .
they live with chemosynthesis .
my favorite one is the middle -- mp3 playwright , nase-hair trimmer and crème brée fackel .
they don &apos;t exist in a solar system , as we do .
and so you see animals that are right next to a 500 degrees celsius , that they can survive there .
at the same time , i was also very interested in space science , which was again the science fiction impact from my childhood .
and so i ended up with the people who are interested in space and who have to do with nasa , and they sit in the nasa expertise advice , and they plan real space missions , and they go to russia , and they go through the biomedical protocol all around it , and then they fly to the international space station , and they take our 3d camera system .
that was fascinating .
but in the end , it was that i took space scientists to the deep sea with us .
i took them with me , and i gave them access to the world down there : astrobiologists , planetary scientists , people who were interested in these extreme situations , and i took them to the sources to look around , take samples and test instruments and so on .
we did documentary films , but we actually did science , in fact , space science .
so the circle between my existence as a science fiction fan , then as a child , and the implementation of reality .
in the course of this journey of discovery , i learned a lot .
and if you haven &apos;t seen that in your business so far , you can be sure you &apos;re going to be .
i &apos;ve learned a lot about science , but i certainly think now , a director has to be able to lead , a leader like a ship captain or something .
but i didn &apos;t understand much about leadership until i got these expeditions .
because at some point , i had to say to myself , &quot; what am i doing here ?
why do i do that ? what &apos;s next ? &quot;
these stupid movies don &apos;t bring us any money .
we &apos;re just playing the cost of production . no trace .
everybody thinks i &apos;m between titanic and &quot; avatar &quot; and i &apos;d gone off , and i would have celebrated the nails on a towel on a beach somewhere .
i made all these films , these documentary movies , for a very small audience .
no fame , no honor , no money . what do you do ?
you do it for the task , for the sake of the challenge -- and the ocean is the most challenging environment that there is . you do it for the discovery noise , and for the strange connection that comes from a small group of people forming a team .
and what it does is it makes people walk into business and ask that question .
because we did all this with just 10 to 12 people who have been working uninterrupted for years , sometimes we were two to three months in the back of the lake .
and in this community , you realize that the most important thing is the contempt you have in front of each other , because you &apos;ve done a task that you can &apos;t explain to anyone else .
when you go back to land and you say , &quot; we &apos;ve had to do it , the fiberglass , the sound glass , and all the way around it , all the technology , and the difficulty , the human performance , if you &apos;re working on the lake , &quot; you just can &apos;t explain the other . it &apos;s like policemen or soldiers who have gone through something together and know that they can never explain it to anybody .
there &apos;s a connection , a mutual respect .
so when i came back to make my next film , &quot; avatar , &quot; i tried to use the same leadership style , which is that you respect your team and you deserve in the opposite direction of respect .
it really changed the dynamics .
so again , i was standing with a small team on unknown terrain , and we were turning &quot; avatar &quot; with a new technology that had not existed before .
incredibly exciting .
an enormous challenge .
and we became a real family for a four-and-a-half year period .
now , you know what the answer to this question is ?
and that changed the way i made movies , completely .
there were people who thought we &apos;d done really well on these ocean creatures and transported them to the planet pandora .
for me , it was more of a principle way of doing my job , the actual process that changed as a result .
so what can we conclude from all this ?
what lessons did we learn ?
i think the first thing is curiosity .
it &apos;s the most powerful human property .
our imagination is a force that can actually create a reality .
and the contempt of your team is more important than any lorbeer in the world .
i get young filmmakers who say , &quot; give me a advice about how i can do this . &quot;
the answer is no .
and i say , &quot; don &apos;t restrict yourself .
that &apos;s what other people get for you . don &apos;t do it to yourself , don &apos;t bet on yourself . take risks on you . &quot;
nasa has such a favorite sentence : &quot; failure is not an alternative . &quot;
but in art and in studying , failure has to be an alternative , because it guarantees a trust process there .
no important endeavor , which demanded innovation , was ever done without risk .
you have to be willing to take those risks .
that &apos;s the thought i &apos;d like to leave you with . failure is an alternative , fear , but it &apos;s not . thank you .
today i &apos;m going to talk to you about energy and climate .
and this may surprise something , because my full-time job at the foundation is mainly about vaccines and seeds to make the things that we need to invent and deliver to allow the poorest two billion to live a better life .
but energy and climate are extremely important for these people , in fact , more important than anyone on the planet .
it &apos;s not possible to buy a mobile phone that doesn &apos;t do too much .
climate degradation means that their seeds are not going to grow over many years . it &apos;s too much or too little rain . things are going to change as their fragile environment can &apos;t sustain .
that leads to starvation deaths . it leads to uncertainty . it leads to unrest .
so , climate change is going to be terrible for you .
and also , the energy cycle for them is very important .
in fact , if you could only reduce the price from one thing to the poverty reduction , energy would be far from the most effective .
well , the energy cycle has fallen over time .
in fact , the progress society is based on energy advances .
coal evolution pushed the industrial revolution , and even in the 20th century , there was a rapid case in the electric cycle , and that &apos;s why we have refrigerators , air conditioning , we can make modern materials and do so many things .
so we &apos;re in a wonderful situation with electricity in the rich world .
but , if we reduce the price -- let &apos;s cut the price in half -- let &apos;s hit a new barrier , and that barrier is related to co2 .
in other aspects of life that are much more significant than buying objects , the same explosion of choice is true .
co2 heats the planet , and the equation for co2 is actually quite clear .
they &apos;re summarizing the co2 that leads to temperature increases , and that increase in temperature has some very negative consequences . effects on the weather and perhaps worse , the indirect result that the natural ecosystems can &apos;t adapt so fast to change and collapse whole systems .
well , the exact relationship between a co2 rise and the resulting change in temperature and where the other consequences are , there are some ambiguity , but not very many .
and there &apos;s certainly ambiguity about how bad these consequences are going to be , but they &apos;re going to be extremely bad .
i asked the top scientists several times , &quot; do we really have to get down to zero ?
and yet , this horrible destiny actually happens to someone anywhere on earth , about every two weeks , because every two weeks , an elderly person dies and takes the last silver of an old language into the grave .
isn &apos;t enough for half or a quarter ? &quot;
the answer is , until we get close to zero , the temperature will go up .
that &apos;s why it &apos;s a big challenge .
it &apos;s very different from saying we have a 3.5 foot truck that has to go under a 30-foot bridge , and you can kind of squeeze it underneath it .
this has to go down to zero .
health care -- it &apos;s no longer the case in the united states that you go to the doctor and the doctor tells you what to do .
well , we expose a lot of carbon dioxide every year , over 26 billion tons .
each american is about 20 tons . people from poor countries , less than one .
on average , it &apos;s about five tons for everyone on the planet .
and somehow we have to create changes that are going to reduce that to zero .
it &apos;s been up all the time .
only different economic changes have changed it at all , and we need to go from rapidly to increase and reduce to zero .
this equation has four factors . a little bit of multiplication . you have this thing on the left -- co2 -- that you want to get to zero , and that &apos;s going to depend on the number of people , on average , on average , on average the average energy for every service and the co2 that &apos;s emitted per unit of energy .
so let &apos;s look at each factor and think about how we get this to zero .
probably one of these numbers has to get very close to zero .
now this is basic algebra , but let &apos;s go through it .
instead , you go to the doctor , and the doctor tells you , we could do a or we could do b .
first , we have the population .
today , 6.8 billion people live .
and it &apos;s going to go to nine billion . it &apos;s going to go to nine billion .
if we &apos;re very successful at new vaccines , health care and reproduction medicine , we might be able to reduce that by 10 to 15 percent , but right now we &apos;re going to see a slope by 1.3 .
the second factor is the services we use .
that includes everything , the food that we eat , clothing , television , heating .
these are very good things , and poverty reduction means making these services available to almost everyone on the planet .
it &apos;s great that this number is rising .
in the rich world , in the upper billion , we might be able to make a dispute and use less , but on average , that number will increase every year and , in total , double the number of services that are provided per person .
here we see a very basic service . is there any light at home so that you can read the homework assignments ?
a has these benefits and risks .
and these students don &apos;t have it , so they go out and read their school assignments under the street .
well , in efficiency , the e , the energy per service , there &apos;s finally good news .
we have something that doesn &apos;t rise .
because of various successes in the light sector , through other autotypes , through new methods in the home , there are a lot of services , and their energy supply is decreased by 90 percent .
in other services , like fertilizers &apos; production , 105 : 05 : 56,000 -- &amp; lt ; 00 : 05 : 58,000 or air transport or air travel , the playspace for improvements is much smaller .
in total , if we &apos;re optimistic , we might get a factor three or maybe a factor six reduction .
but for the first three factors , we &apos;ve now gone from 26 billion to maybe 13 billion tons , and that &apos;s just not enough .
so let &apos;s look at the fourth factor -- and this is going to be a key factor -- that &apos;s the amount of co2 that &apos;s emitted per unit of energy .
it &apos;s a question of whether you can get this to zero .
if you burn coal , no .
b has these benefits and risks . what do you want to do ?
if you burn natural gas , no .
almost every manufacturing method for electricity today emits co2 , except for renewables and nuclear power .
so , what we need to do at a global level is to create a new system .
we need energy miracles .
now , when i use the term &quot; miracle , &quot; i don &apos;t mean the impossible .
the microprocessor is a miracle . the pc is a miracle .
the internet and its service is a miracle .
people here have contributed to the development of many of these miracles .
there &apos;s usually no deadline that you need a miracle to a particular date .
you &apos;re usually just getting it wrong , and some of you don &apos;t .
and they say , &quot; doctor , what should i do ? &quot;
but in this case , we have to give full gas and get a miracle in a very short time .
well , i wondered , how can i really get this over ?
is there a natural illustration , a demonstration that sparks the idea of people here ?
i remembered last year when i brought mosquitos , and somehow people liked that .
the idea became really tangible for them , you know , there are people who live with mosquitos .
for energy , this is what i came up with .
i decided that the freedom of fireflies would be here for my year &apos;s contribution to the environment .
so here are some natural fireflies .
i &apos;ve been told that they &apos;re not going to bite . in fact , they &apos;re not going to even leave the glass .
well , there are all kinds of playful solutions like this , but they all don &apos;t do much .
the doctor says a has these benefits and risks , and b has those benefits and risks .
we need solutions , either one or another , that have an unimaginable scaling and unimaginable reliability , and although there are many directions where people are looking for it , i really only see five that can afford these big demands .
i &apos;ve left out time , geothermal , fusion and biofuels .
they might be doing a modern contribution , and if they do better than i expect , that would be great , but my core statement here is that we have to work on all those five , and we can &apos;t give up any of them because they shy us , because they all have significant problems .
let &apos;s first look at burning fossil fuels , burning coal or natural gas .
what you have to do there may seem simple , but it &apos;s not . you have to capture all the co2 that comes out of the chimneys , put it under pressure , and then put it somewhere , and hope it stays there .
there are some pilot projects that do this at a 60 percent level -- 80 percent level , but getting it to 100 percent will be very difficult , and getting an agreement for the storage of co2 is a big challenge . but the biggest problem here is the storage question .
who &apos;s going to make it safe ?
who can guarantee something that literally billions of times larger than any kind of garbage you can imagine of nuclear and other things ?
that &apos;s a lot of volume .
so that &apos;s a hard nut .
what do you want to do ?
next , nuclear energy .
it also has three big problems . the cost , especially in high-regulated countries , is high , and the question of security is that you really feel that nothing can go wrong despite the human participation that the fuel is not used for weapons .
and then what do you do with the garbage ?
because even though it &apos;s not very big , there &apos;s a lot of concerns .
so three very difficult problems that might be solved , and that &apos;s why you should work .
i &apos;ve summarized the last three out of five .
it &apos;s renewables , as they &apos;re often called .
and they also have -- although it &apos;s great that they don &apos;t need a fuel -- they have some disadvantages .
one is the energy density that these technologies create dramatically lower than the power plants .
these are energy fields , you talk about many square kilometers , thousands of times more land than a normal power station .
and if you said , &quot; if you were me , doctor , what would you do ? &quot;
and also , these sources are interruptions .
the sun doesn &apos;t shine all day , it doesn &apos;t shine every day , and the wind doesn &apos;t keep blowing all the time .
that &apos;s why , if you &apos;re dependent on these sources , you have to have a way to get the energy in times when it &apos;s not available .
so there are big prices here . there are challenges in transmission . for example , if we say that the energy source is outside the country , you don &apos;t just need the technology , you have to deal with the risk of energy coming from where else is .
and there &apos;s the storage problem .
and to show the dimension , i looked at all kinds of batteries that are made : the cars , computers , cell phones , flashlights , for everything . and i compared that to the amount of electronic energy that the world uses , and i found that all the batteries that we &apos;re producing now could store less than 10 minutes of the total energy .
so we need a big breakthrough here , something that will be a factor of 100 better than the approaches at the moment .
it &apos;s not impossible , but it &apos;s not that easy .
this is what happens when you try to get these interrupted sources over 20 percent -- 30 percent of the use .
if you want to support yourself by 100 percent , you need an incredible miracle battery .
the doctor says , &quot; but i &apos;m not her . &quot;
now , where should we go : what &apos;s the right approach ?
a manhattan project ? how do we get there ?
what we need is a lot of companies working on this . hundreds .
in each of these five areas , we need at least 100 people .
many of you will say , they &apos;re nuts ! that &apos;s good .
i think there are a lot of people here in the ted group who are already involved there .
bill gross has several companies , including one called esolar , which has great solar thermal technologies .
vinod khosla is investing in dozens of companies doing great things and having interesting opportunities , and i &apos;m trying to support that .
nathan myhrvold and i fund a company that , perhaps surprisingly , tracks the nuclear approach .
there are some innovations in the nuclear field ; modular , liquid .
the result is -- we call it &quot; patient autonomy . &quot; that sounds like a good thing , but in reality , a shift in the burden of responsibility for making decisions from someone who knows something -- namely , the doctor -- to someone who knows nothing and is most likely sick , and therefore not in the best constitution is to make a decision -- namely , the patient .
the development of this industry stopped some time ago , so it &apos;s not a great surprise that some good concepts are around .
the terrapower-concept means that instead of a part of the uranium , the one percent , the u235 , we decided to burn the 99 percent , the u238 .
this is a pretty crazy idea .
but in fact , you &apos;d been thinking about it for a long time , but you could never reasonably simulate whether it would work , but since there &apos;s modern supercomputers , you can simulate it and see that , yes , with the right material approach , it looks like it works .
and i know some of you say , &quot; isn &apos;t it better ? &quot; wouldn &apos;t the world be a better place if we all talked one language ? &quot; and i say , &quot; well , let this language be yoruba . let it be cantonesian .
and because you burn that 99 percent , the cost profile is much better .
in fact , you burn the garbage , and you can even use the waste of today &apos;s reactors as a fuel .
instead of breaking your head , you just burn it . it &apos;s a great thing .
the uranium is used gradually , a little bit like a candle .
you can see that it &apos;s a kind of pillar , often called the &quot; traveling wave of reactor . &quot;
that really solves the fuel problem .
there &apos;s a huge marketing for prescription drugs for people like you and me , which , if you think about it , doesn &apos;t make any sense at all , because we don &apos;t buy them .
here &apos;s a picture of a place in kentucky .
that &apos;s the waste , the 99 percent . you &apos;ve got the part that &apos;s burned today , so it &apos;s called the used uranium .
this is what drives the u.s. for hundreds of years .
and if you make ocean water cheap and easy to film , you get enough fuel for the rest of the planet &apos;s life .
you know , there are many challenges , but it &apos;s an example of many hundreds of concepts that we need to move forward .
let &apos;s think about how we should measure our success .
what should our testimony look like ?
well , let &apos;s go to the goal that we have to reach , and then we talk about the intermediate .
many people talk about 80 percent reduction by 2050 .
it &apos;s really important that we get there .
why do they advertise us if we can &apos;t buy ?
the rest of the 20 percent will be produced in poor countries , and still some agriculture , hopefully whale threat and cement will be clean until then .
so to get to that 80 percent , the developed world , including countries like china , has to completely reframe its electricity generation .
the other note says whether we use the zero-emission technology , whether it &apos;s used in all the developed countries , and we &apos;re on the way to get it to the rest of it .
that &apos;s terribly important .
this is going to be a key element of this stuff .
if we go back from there , what would that 2020 testimony look like ?
it should contain the two elements again .
we should use the efficiency measures to get reducing , and the less we emitt , the less carbon dioxide will be , and therefore , the temperature will be reduced .
but in fact , this note for the things that we do that don &apos;t completely lead to the big reductions , just the same , or even slightly less important than the other , which is the speed of innovation for these breakthroughs .
we have to track these breakthroughs with full gas , and we can measure this : in corporate numbers , in pilot projects and regulation changes .
the answer is , you expect us to call the doctor the next morning and ask for a change in the prescription .
there are a lot of great books about this topic .
the al gore book &quot; we have the choice &quot; and david mckays &quot; sustainable energy without the hot air . &quot;
they really go through it , and they create a framework in which this can be discussed , because we need support from all sides .
there &apos;s a lot that has to come together .
that &apos;s a wish .
a very concrete wish that we &apos;re inventing this technology .
if you just gave me a wish for the next 50 years , i could choose the president , a vaccine , and i love that , or i could choose that wish , which is , halved energy without co2 , i would take that wish .
this one has the biggest impact .
if we don &apos;t get that wish , the digging between the long term and the short-term thinking people will be terrible , between the united states and china , between the poor and the rich country , and almost all of the lives of those two billion will be much worse .
so what do we have to do ?
now , something as profound as our identity is a question of choice , how do we show this slide ?
what kind of measures do i appeal to ?
we need to use more research funds .
when countries meet in places like coppenhagen , they shouldn &apos;t just talk about co2 .
you should discuss this innovation strategy , and you would be shocked by the ridiculously low ones spent on these innovative approaches .
we need market tanks , co2 taxes , cap &amp; amp ; trade , something that creates a price signal .
we need to spread the news .
we need to have dialogue more rational and more complete , and also the things that are done by the government .
it &apos;s an important wish , but i think we can fulfill it .
thank you .
thank you .
we don &apos;t inherit identity , we invent it .
thank you . thank you !
thank you . just to understand terrapower a little bit better -- first of all , can you give us an idea of the scale of this investment ?
bill gates : to do the simulation on a supercomputer , to get all the big scientists what we &apos;ve done , we just need a few 10 million , and even if we &apos;ve tested our materials in a russian reactor to make sure it works reasonably , you &apos;re just in the 100 million .
the hard step is to build the first reactor , to find another billion , the regularia and the place that actually builds the first one .
as soon as the first one is done , if it &apos;s as promised , it &apos;s all clear , because the economy , the energy density , is as different from nuclear as we know it .
to understand the right thing : this means building deep into the ground , almost like a vertical column of nuclear fuel , this consumed uranium , and then the process starts up and continues to work down ?
bg : right . now you have to refill the reactor all the time , so there &apos;s a lot of people and a lot of controls that can go wrong . this thing where you open it up and bring things in -- or out . that &apos;s not good .
but if you have very cheap fuel , you can fill it for 60 years -- think of a column -- that you buried without all the complexity .
and it &apos;s sitting there burning for 60 years , and then it &apos;s finished .
a nuclear reactor that offers a solution to the garbage itself .
and we &apos;re reinventing ourselves as often as we want .
bg : yeah . now , what happens to the garbage : you can let it sit -- there &apos;s much less waste with this method -- then take it and put it in the next reactor and burn it .
and we start by taking the waste that already exists , which is in these refrigerators or dry containers in the reactors . this is our launch fuel .
so what these reactors were a problem is what we put in our fills , and it dramatically reduces the waste volume in this process .
but as you &apos;ve talked to different people in the world about these possibilities .
where is the biggest interest in doing this ?
bg : well , we haven &apos;t set ourselves to a place yet , and there &apos;s a lot of interesting rules of revelation for everything that &apos;s called &quot; nuclear &quot; in the name . there &apos;s a lot of interest , and the people of the company were in russia , india , china -- i was here and i met the energy minister and i talked about how this fits to the energy agenda .
i &apos;m optimistic . you know , the french and the japanese have done something in the direction .
this is a version of one thing that was done .
this is an important step forward , but it &apos;s like a faster reactor , and some countries have built it , so anyone who has implemented a fast reactor is a candidate for our first .
in your mind , the time-frame and probability of really creating this ?
that means every day , if you wake up in the morning , you have to decide what kind of person you want to be .
bg : well , we need one of these scalable , electricity generators that &apos;s very cheap , we have 20 years to invent and then 20 years to use .
this is kind of the deadline that showed us the environmental models that we need to hold .
and , you know , terrapower , if everything is going well , and that &apos;s a big wish , could make it easy .
and luckily , there are dozens of companies today , and we need hundreds who , as well as their approaches work , can provide the funding for their pilots .
and it would be best if you could do it several , because then you could use a mixture .
anyway , we need a solution .
in terms of the great possible breakthroughs , is this the biggest thing you know ?
bg : an energy breakthrough is the most important thing .
it would have been without the environmental requirement , but it makes it so much more important .
in the nuclear sector , there are other innovative companies .
in terms of marriage and family , there was a time when the standard assumption was that almost everybody had one , and they got married as fast as they could , and then they got as quickly as they could .
you know , we don &apos;t know their work as well as this , but there &apos;s the modular method , that &apos;s a different approach .
there &apos;s a liquid reactor that seems a little bit difficult , but maybe they say that about us .
and so there are different , but the beauty of this is that a uranium molecule has a million times as much energy as one , say , a coal molecule , and so if you can deal with the problems , and they &apos;re mostly the radiation , the footprint and the cost , the potential , the impact on the land and other things , almost in your own league .
if that doesn &apos;t work , then what ?
do we have to introduce emergency measures to try and maintain the temperature of the earth ?
bg : when you get into this situation , it &apos;s as if you &apos;ve eaten too much , and you &apos;re just in front of a heart attack . what do you do ? you might need a heart surgery or something .
there &apos;s a line of research called geoengineering , which is about various techniques to delay warming , so that we could get 20 or 30 years longer to get together .
this is just a insurance method .
you hope we don &apos;t need that .
some people say you shouldn &apos;t work on insurance at all , because that might make you lazy so you keep eating , because you know that the heart surgery is going to save you .
the only real choice was who , not when , and not what they did after that .
i don &apos;t know if that &apos;s smart if you think about the importance of this problem , but there &apos;s now a discourse in geoengineering about whether to have that available , if things come faster , or this innovation takes longer than we expect .
climatics : do you have one or two sentences for those who might convince you ?
bg : well , unfortunately , the skeptics live in very different camps .
those who make scientific arguments are very little .
do you say that there are negative effects that have to do with the clouds that are changing things ?
there are very , very few things you can even say , of which there is a chance in a million .
the main problem here is similar to aids .
you make the mistake now , and you pay a lot later .
and so the idea , now , if you have all kinds of urgent problems , is to invest in something that you only have later on -- and the fact that the investment is not so clear . in fact , the ipcc report is not necessarily the worst scenario , and there are people in the rich world who look at ipcc and say , okay , that &apos;s not a big drama .
the fact is that this uncertainty should make us worried .
today , everything is easy to have .
but my dream here is that if you can do it economically , and at the same time , the co2 goes away , the skeptics say , &quot; okay , i &apos;m not interested that it doesn &apos;t emitt co2 , i wish it almost did , but i &apos;m going to accept it because it &apos;s cheaper than the previous method . &quot;
and that would be your answer to the lomborg argument that if you use all this time and energy to solve the co2 problem , all the other goals suffer , the reduction of poverty , the control of malaria and so on , that there is a stupid waste of resources to invest money , while there are better things we can do .
bg : well , the actual spending on research -- let &apos;s say the u.s. should spend 10 billion a year more than you do today -- that &apos;s not so dramatic .
it should not suffer from other things .
you go to big money , and here you can disagree with reasonable people if you have something that &apos;s not economic , and you try to fund that , and for me , most of the waste is happening .
unless you &apos;re very close to a cost breakthrough , and you &apos;re just funding the learning curve , i think we should try more things that have the potential to be much cheaper .
if the distrust you get is a very high energy cycle , then only the rich can keep up .
let them be . &quot;
i mean , each of us here could spend five times as much on our energy without changing its lifestyle .
but for the bottom two billion , it &apos;s a disaster .
and even lomborg thinks about it .
i teach wonderful intelligent students , and i give them 20 percent less work than i used to do .
his new flap is now , &quot; why is the research not going to talk about anymore ? &quot;
he &apos;s still associated with the skeptic camp , because of his earlier stories , but he understood that this is a very lonely group , and so he &apos;s now making the research argument .
and that &apos;s a thought process that i think is appropriate .
research , it &apos;s just crazy how little it &apos;s being supported .
bill , i think i &apos;m speaking for almost all people here when i say , i really hope your wish will come true . thank you very much .
bg : thank you .
a few years ago , here at ted , peter skillman presented a design competition called &quot; the marshmallow challenge . &quot;
the idea is pretty simple . four teams have to build the largest free-standing structure with 20 spaghetti , about a meter tape , about a meter of thread and a marshmallow .
the marshmallow has to be on top .
and , although it seems really simple , it &apos;s actually really hard , because it urges people to work very quickly .
and it &apos;s not because they &apos;re less smart , not because they &apos;re less careful .
and so i thought this was an interesting idea , and i turned it into a design workshop .
it was a huge success .
since then , i &apos;ve done about 70 workshops around the world , with students , developers and architects , even with the ctos of fortune 50-company , and there &apos;s something about this task that allows deep insights into the nature of collaboration , and i want to share some of them with you .
usually most people start to orient themselves in the task .
they &apos;re talking about it , they &apos;re thinking about what it &apos;s going to look like , they &apos;re running around power .
then they invest a little bit of time in planning and organization , and they sketch and they expose spaghetti .
they spend a lot of their time in the assembly of constantly growing structures .
and finally , just before you don &apos;t have time , somebody takes the marshmallow and they put it on the top , step back , and ta-da ! admire your work .
but then , almost always , what happens is that the ta-da becomes a uh-oh , because the weight of the marshmallow causes the whole thing to bend and collapse .
there are a number of people who have much more &quot; uh-oh &quot; moments than others , and among the worst are fresh bwl graduates .
it &apos;s because you &apos;re busy with other things , you ask yourself , &quot; should i marry or not ? should i marry now ?
they lie , they cheat , they &apos;re confused , and they produce really drought shapes .
and of course , there are teams who have much more &quot; ta-da &quot; shapes , and among the best are fresh graduates of kindergarten .
and that &apos;s pretty amazing .
as peter told us , they not only produce the highest towers , but also the most interesting structures of all .
what you might ask is : how is this ? why ? what about them ?
and peter says , &quot; none of the kids spend time in being the head of the spaghetti gmbh . &quot;
they don &apos;t spend time in power fights .
but there &apos;s another reason .
and that is that bwl students have been trained to find the right plan , ok !
and then realize it .
should i marry later ? should i have children first , or should i have a career ? &quot;
what happens when you put the marshmallow on the top , you don &apos;t have time , and what happens ?
it &apos;s a crisis .
sounds familiar , right ?
what kindergarten kids do differently is they start with the marshmallow and they build prototypes , successful prototypes , always with the marshmallow on the top , so that they have a multi-fold opportunity to repair badly prototypes .
constructors recognize this kind of collaboration as the core of an iterative process .
and with every attempt , the kids get instant feedback about what works and what doesn &apos;t .
so the performance of working with prototypes is substantially -- but let &apos;s see how different teams operate .
the average of most of them is about five inches , bwl students are creating half of them , lawyers a little bit more , but not much , kindergarten kids are better than adults .
who is the most successful ?
architects and engineers , fortunately .
they &apos;re all engaging questions .
one meter is the highest thing i &apos;ve seen .
and why ? because they understand triangles and secure self-amplifying geometric patterns are the key to build stable structures .
ceos are a little bit about average . but this is where it gets interesting .
if you put an executive administrator on the team , they get significantly better .
it &apos;s incredible . you look around and you see , &quot; this team will win . &quot;
you can predict that . why is that possible ?
because they have special skills for processing .
they run the process , they understand it .
and that team that rules and focuses on the work will significantly improve the performance of the team .
specialized skills and processing skills and their combination leads to success .
and you &apos;re going to answer these questions regardless of whether that means doing all the tasks that i &apos;m telling you to do and not get a good note in my course .
if you have 10 teams that are typical , you get about six that have stable structures .
i was trying to do something interesting .
i thought , let &apos;s do the poker &apos;s work .
so i offered a $ 10,000 software price for the winners .
what do you think happened to these design students ?
what was the result ?
this is what happened . not a team had a stable structure .
if anybody had built a two-inch construction , they would have carried the price home .
so isn &apos;t it interesting that high competitions have a strong effect ?
we repeated this exercise with the same students .
and in fact , they should . these are important questions to answer .
now , what do you think happened ?
now they understood the advantage of the prototyping .
that &apos;s how the same bad team turned out to be one under the best .
they produced the highest construction in the least time .
so there are deep lessons for us , about the nature of drive and success .
you might ask : why would someone actually spend time creating a marshmallow challenge ?
the reason is , i &apos;m helping create digital tools and processes to help teams create cars , video games and visual effects .
and what the marshmallow challenge does is it helps them identify hidden assumptions .
because frankly , every project has its own marshmallow .
the challenge provides a common experience , a common language , or basic , to build the right prototype .
work -- we &apos;re blessed , as carl pointed out , with the technology that allows us to work every minute from every day on the planet -- to the randolph hotel .
and this is the value of this experience , this simple exercise .
and those of you who care about it can visit marshmallowchallenge.com .
it &apos;s a blog where you see how to build the marshmallows .
there &apos;s a step-by-step manual there .
they find crazy examples from all over the world about how people optimize and refine the system .
there are also world record .
and the basic lesson , i think , is that construction is actually a commitment sport .
it requires that we all focus our senses on the task , and that we use our thinking optimally , like our emotions and our actions , in the challenge that we face .
and sometimes a little prototype of this experience is all it takes to take us from a uh-oh -- to a ta-da moment .
and that can make a big difference .
there &apos;s a corner , by the way , that i &apos;m not going to tell you about , where the wirelesslan works .
thank you .
let &apos;s pretend we have a machine here .
a big machine , a cool , ted machine , and that &apos;s a time machine .
and everyone in this room has to go in .
and you can go to the past , you can go to the future ; you can &apos;t stay here and now .
and i wonder what they would choose , because i &apos;ve asked my friends this question a lot lately , and they all wanted to go to the past .
i don &apos;t know . they wanted to go back to time before there were cars or twitter or &quot; america is looking for the superstar . &quot;
i don &apos;t know .
i &apos;m convinced that somehow you &apos;ve moved to nostalgia , to wonder .
and i understand that .
i &apos;m not going to tell you , because i want to use it .
i &apos;m not part of this group , i have to say .
i don &apos;t want to go into the past , not because i &apos;m an adventurer .
it &apos;s because possibilities on the planet are not going back , they &apos;re going forward .
so i want to go into this machine , and i want to go into the future .
and then you would suddenly realize what it would be like if you couldn &apos;t speak your own language .
this is the greatest time that there has ever been on the planet , no matter what scale you &apos;re going to do : health , wealth , mobility , opportunities , declining disease .
there was never a time like this before .
my great-grandparents all died when they were 60 .
my grandparents pushed that number to 70 .
my parents are the 80 on the heels .
so there should be a nine at the beginning of my death number better .
so what it means to make decisions about this incredible freedom of choice , over and over again , whether we should work or should not work .
but it &apos;s not even about people like us , because this is a bigger thing than that .
a child born today in new delhi may expect to live as long as the richest man in the world 100 years ago .
think about it . that &apos;s an incredible fact .
and why is that ?
smallpox . smallpox killed billions of people on the planet .
they &apos;ve reformed the demographics of the earth in a way that no war has ever done .
they &apos;re gone . they &apos;ve disappeared .
we &apos;ve forced them . puff .
in the rich world , there are diseases that millions of us have threatened only one generation ago , hardly yet .
diphoma , tube , child paralysis ...
we can watch our kids play football , and we have our cell phone on one hip , and our blackberry on other hips , and our laptop is probably on our lap .
does anybody know what that is ?
vaccines , modern medicine , our ability to feed billions of people , are successes of the scientific method .
and from my point of view , the scientific method to try things out is to see if it works , change it , if it doesn &apos;t , one of the greatest achievements in humanity .
so that &apos;s the good news .
unfortunately , it &apos;s all the good news , because there are a few other problems , and they &apos;ve been mentioned a lot .
and one of them is that , despite all our achievements , a billion people in the world go to bed hungry every day .
that number goes up , and it goes up very quickly , and that &apos;s embarrassing .
and not only that , we &apos;ve used our imagination to devastation this world thoroughly .
drinking water , ancient land , rainforests , oil , gas : they disappear , soon , and if we don &apos;t get out of this chaos , we &apos;re going to disappear .
so the question is : can we do that ? i think so .
and even if you &apos;re all turned off , every minute we &apos;re watching our child mutilating a football game , we &apos;re asking ourselves , &quot; should i take this call ?
i think it &apos;s clear that we can produce food that will feed billions of people without raping the land that they live on .
i think we can power this world that doesn &apos;t destroy it at the same time .
i really believe that , and no , that &apos;s not a wishthink .
but this is what keeps me awake at night -- one of the things that keeps me awake at night . we &apos;ve never needed scientific progress as much as we do now , never .
and we &apos;ve never been able to use it reasonably as we can today .
we &apos;re at the threshold of amazing , amazing events in many areas , and yet i really think that we have to go back hundreds , 300 years before the enlightenment to find a time when we have fought progress , in which we &apos;ve driven over these things , more fronts than now .
people are wrapping up in their faith , so tightly that you can &apos;t free them .
not even the truth will liberate it .
and listen , everyone has a right to their opinion , even a right to progress .
but you know what they &apos;re not right about ?
should i answer that email ? should i write that letter ? &quot;
they &apos;re not right to their own facts . &apos; debt , they &apos;re not .
and it took me a while to figure that out .
about a decade ago , i wrote an article about vaccine for &quot; the new yorker , &quot; a little article .
and i was amazed to bump into resistance , resistance to what ultimately is the most effective thing in health care in human history .
i didn &apos;t know what to do , so i just did whatever i do , i wrote an article , and i went on .
and soon after that , i wrote an article about genetically modified food .
the same thing , just bigger .
people were playing crazy .
so i also wrote an article about this , and i couldn &apos;t understand why people thought this was &quot; frankenfood , &quot; why they thought that molecules were in a certain way , rather than shooting a random way around in nature .
but you know , i do what i do . i wrote the article , i kept going .
and even though the answer to the question &quot; no , &quot; it &apos;s certainly going to be your child &apos;s football game experience very different than it would have been .
i mean , i &apos;m a journalist .
we type in , we pass in , we eat , that &apos;s okay .
but these articles were worried about me , and i couldn &apos;t figure out why , and i finally found out .
and that &apos;s because these fanatics who made me crazy were not fanatics at all .
these were thoughtful people , educated people , decent people .
they were just like the people in this room .
and that got me so confused .
but then i thought , you know what , let &apos;s face it .
we &apos;ve come to a point where we don &apos;t have the same relationship with progress as we used to .
we &apos;re talking about twins .
everywhere we look , big things and small things , material things and lifestyle , life is a question of choice .
we &apos;re talking ironically about this , with little leaders about this : &quot; progress . &quot;
okay , there are reasons , and i think we know what the reasons are .
we have the confidence in institutions , in authority , and sometimes in science itself , and there &apos;s no reason why it shouldn &apos;t be that way .
you can just call it a few names , and people will understand .
chernobyl , bhopal , the challenger , vioxx , weapons of mass destruction , the u.s. presidential election in 2000 .
i mean , you know , you can choose your own list .
there are questions and problems with the people we thought they were always right . so be skeptical .
ask questions , ask for evidence , ask for evidence .
take nothing for granted .
but here &apos;s the thing : if you have to get the evidence , you have to adopt this evidence , and we &apos;re not good at it .
and the world that we lived in looked like this .
and i can say that because of that , we &apos;re now living in an epidemic of fear , as i &apos;ve never seen it , and hopefully never seen it again .
about 12 years ago , a story was published , a terrible story that connected the autism epidemic to the mask , mumps , and root vaccine .
very scary .
well , studies were conducted to see if this was true .
well , studies should be done ; that &apos;s a serious issue .
the data came in .
the data came in from the united states , from england , from sweden , from canada , and they were all the same , no correlation , no connection , no one .
it doesn &apos;t matter . it doesn &apos;t matter because we believe in anecdotes , we believe what we see , what we think we see , what makes us feel real .
we don &apos;t believe in a bunch of documents from a government agency that gives us data , and i understand that , i think we all do that .
but you know what ?
so i want to say , there were some choices , but it wasn &apos;t all a matter of choice .
the result of this was catastrophic .
catastrophic because of this fact , the united states is one of the only countries in the world where the vaccines for masses are falling .
this is scandalous , and we should be ashamed .
it &apos;s terrible .
what happened was that we could do that .
well , i understand that . i do .
because does anybody have masses here ?
did a single one in the audience ever see anyone die of masses ?
doesn &apos;t happen very often .
it doesn &apos;t happen at all in this country , but 160,000 times in the world last year .
and the world that we live in now looks like this .
that &apos;s a lot of deaths from masses , 20 per hour .
but because that didn &apos;t happen here , we can deny it , and people like jenny mccarthy can walk around and preach messages of fear and illiteracy of platforms like oprah and larry king live .
and they can do that because they don &apos;t connect cause and correlation .
they don &apos;t understand that these things seem the same , but almost never the same .
and that &apos;s something we need to learn , very quickly .
this guy was a hero , jonas salk .
he liberated us from one of humanity &apos;s worst minds .
no fear , no torture , no child &apos;s paralysis , buff , disappeared .
the guy in the middle is not so much .
it &apos;s called paul offit .
and the question is , are they good news or bad news ?
he &apos;s just developed a rotavirus-vaccine with a few other people .
he can save the lives of 4,000 , 500,000 children a year in the developing world .
pretty good , right ?
well , that &apos;s good , besides paul walking around talking about vaccines and saying how valuable they are , and people should just stop complaining .
and that &apos;s actually what he says .
so paul is a terrorist .
so today , i want to take you on a kind of journey through the ethnosphere , a short journey through the ethnosphere , to try to make you understand what &apos;s actually been lost .
if paul talks in a public hearing , he can &apos;t say without armed guards .
he gets calls at home because people like to tell him that they know where his kids go to school .
and why ? because paul made a vaccine .
i don &apos;t need to say that , but vaccines are essential .
the answer is yes .
take them away , go back to the diseases , terrible diseases , and that &apos;s what &apos;s happening .
we have masses in this country now .
and that gets worse , and pretty soon , kids will die again , because that &apos;s just a matter of numbers .
and they &apos;re not just going to die of masses .
what about child paralysis ? let &apos;s take that . why not ?
a commilitary of mine wrote me a few weeks ago , and she said she thought i &apos;m a little bit too shrimp .
no one has ever said that before .
she wouldn &apos;t vaccinate her child against child paralysis . no way .
fine .
why ? because we don &apos;t have children &apos;s paralysis . and you know what ?
we all know what &apos;s good about it , so i &apos;m going to talk about what &apos;s bad about it .
we didn &apos;t have children &apos;s paralysis yesterday in this country .
today , i don &apos;t know , maybe somebody got on an airplane this morning in lagos , and they &apos;re flying to los angeles , right now they &apos;re over ohio .
and in a few hours , he lands and rents a car , and he comes to long beach , and he &apos;s going to visit one of these fantastic ted dinner tonight .
and he doesn &apos;t know that he &apos;s infected with a paralyzing disease , and we don &apos;t know , because that &apos;s how the world works .
this is the planet that we live on . don &apos;t pretend it &apos;s not .
we love to wrap ourselves in lies . we love that .
did you take all your vitamins this morning ?
echinacea , a little antioxidantium that helps you to jump .
i know you did that because half of americans do it every day .
they take the stuff , and they take alternative cures , and it doesn &apos;t matter how often we find out they &apos;re useless .
all of these choices have two effects , two negative effects on people .
the data is all the time .
they evaporate their urine . they almost never do .
that &apos;s okay , you want to pay 28 billion dollars for dark urine .
i totally agree with you .
dark urine . dark .
why do we do that ? why do we do that ?
well , i think i understand -- we hate the pharmaceutical industry .
we hate too strong government . we have no trust in the system .
and we shouldn &apos;t . our healthcare system is mies .
it &apos;s cruel to millions of people .
one effect , paradoxically , is that it &apos;s paralyzed instead of liberating .
it &apos;s absolutely astonishingly cold and soul to ourselves that can afford it .
so we &apos;re going away from it , and where are we going ?
we &apos;re running into the arms of the placebo industry .
that &apos;s great . i love the placebo industry .
but , you know , this is really a serious issue , because the stuff is crap , and we spend billions of dollars on it .
and i have all kinds of little props here .
none of them -- gingko , fraud , echinacea , fraud , acai , i don &apos;t even know what that is , but we spend billions of dollars on it , it &apos;s fraud .
and you know what ? when i say that , people scream at me and say , &quot; what do you care ? let people do what they want .
that &apos;s how you feel . &quot;
and you know what ? they &apos;re wrong .
with so many options you can choose , people are very difficult to decide at all .
because it doesn &apos;t matter to me whether it &apos;s the minister of health who says , &quot; hmm , i &apos;m not going to take the evidence of my expert on mammography , &quot; or any cancer squirt that &apos;s going to treat his patients with caffe-einrors .
if you go on this path , where belief and magic replace evidence and science , you get to a place where you don &apos;t want to be .
they get to thabo mbeki in south africa .
he killed 400,000 of his people because he insisted that red beds , knob and lemon oil are much more effective than antiretroviral drugs that we know can break the course of aids .
hundreds of thousands of unnecessary deaths in a country that is scattered worse than any other disease .
don &apos;t tell me that these things don &apos;t have any consequences .
they have them . they always have them .
now , the most brainless epidemic that we &apos;re in right now is this absurd struggle between the proponent genetically modified food and the bio-elite .
this is an idiotic debate . it has to stop .
it &apos;s a debate about words , about metaphors .
i &apos;m going to give you another dramatic example of this , a study of investing in volunteer retirement .
this is ideology , not science .
everything we eat , every grain of rice , every branch of petersilence , every rosecoal , was changed by the people .
you know , there were no mandarins in paradise .
there were no cantal melons .
there were no christmas trees . we did all this .
we &apos;ve done it in the last 11,000 years .
and some of them worked and some of them didn &apos;t .
we got rid of what didn &apos;t work .
now we can make it more accurate . and of course , there are risks , but we can do something like vitamin a in rice , and the stuff can help millions of people extend their lives .
you don &apos;t want to do that ?
a colleague of mine had access to investment records of vanguard , the giant fund society of about a million employees and about 2,000 different jobs .
i have to say , i don &apos;t understand that .
we reject genetically modified food .
why do we do that ?
now , what i hear all the time is too many chemicals , pesticides , hormones , monoculture , we don &apos;t want huge fields with one thing , that &apos;s wrong .
we don &apos;t want companies to patent life .
we don &apos;t want companies to own seeds .
and you know what my answer to all this is ?
yes , they &apos;re right . let &apos;s fix that .
it &apos;s true , we have a huge food problem , but that &apos;s not science .
it has nothing to do with science .
and what she found was per 10 investment fund that the employer provided , took the participation by two percent .
it &apos;s right , morality , patent stuff .
you know that science is not a company .
it &apos;s not a country .
it &apos;s not even an idea ; it &apos;s a process .
it &apos;s a process , and sometimes it doesn &apos;t work , and sometimes it doesn &apos;t work , but the idea that we shouldn &apos;t allow science to do their work , because we &apos;re afraid that we &apos;re really a dead end , and it stops millions of people from flourishing .
you know , in the next 50 years , we &apos;re going to have to grow 70 percent more food than we are right now . 70 percent .
this investment in africa over the last 30 years .
shame . shame .
they need that , and we don &apos;t give it to them .
and why ? genetically modified food .
they offer 50 investment fund -- 10 percent less employees participate than if they just offered five . why ?
we don &apos;t want to encourage people to eat this rotten stuff , like manioc .
manioc is something that half a billion people eat .
it &apos;s kind of like a potato .
it &apos;s just a bunch of calories . it &apos;s mies .
it has no nutrients , it has no protein , and scientists are building all of that in it right now .
and then people could eat it and they wouldn &apos;t get blind .
you wouldn &apos;t starve , and you know what ?
that would be beautiful . it wouldn &apos;t be chez panisse , but it would be beautiful .
and all i can say about this is : why do we fight this ?
i mean , let &apos;s ask : why do we fight this ?
because it &apos;s 50 investment fund to choose , it &apos;s so hard to decide which one to vote for tomorrow .
because we don &apos;t want to move genes around ?
it &apos;s not about pushing genes around . it &apos;s not about chemicals .
it &apos;s not about our ridiculous passion for hormones , our insights on larger food , better food , unique food .
it &apos;s not about rice krispies , it &apos;s about keeping people alive , and it &apos;s going to be time to understand what that means .
because you know what ?
now , there are some of us who sort of forget that when i say , &quot; different possibilities of being , &quot; i mean really different ways of being .
if we don &apos;t do that , if we continue to do it the way we &apos;re going to be guilty of something that i think we don &apos;t want to be guilty , high-tech colonialism .
there &apos;s no other description of what &apos;s going on here .
it &apos;s selfish , it &apos;s ugly , it &apos;s not worthy , and we really have to stop that .
so after this incredibly funny conversation , you might want to say , &quot; do you still want to go into this ridiculous time machine and the future ? &quot;
anyway . i certainly want that .
and then tomorrow , and then tomorrow , and tomorrow , and tomorrow , and of course , tomorrow never comes .
right now , it &apos;s in the present , but we have an incredible opportunity .
we can put this time machine on everything we want .
we can move them where we want to move them , and we &apos;re going to move them where we want to .
we have to have these conversations , and we have to think , but when we get into the time machine and go into the future , we &apos;re going to be happy to have done that .
i know that we can , and as far as i &apos;m concerned , that &apos;s something that the world needs now .
thank you .
thank you .
i &apos;ve been interested in the placebo effect for a while , and it may seem strange that a magician is interested in it , unless you look at it like me , &quot; a deception that becomes real when somebody believes enough . &quot;
in other words , sugar pills have shown a measurable effect in some studies , the placebo effect , just because the person thinks what &apos;s happening to her is a pharmaceutical or a kind of ... in pain management , for example , if the patient only believes in it , there &apos;s a measurable effect in the body called the placebo effect .
a deception becomes real because somebody perceives it that way .
understand that it &apos;s not just that people have to eat dog food when they go to retirement , because they don &apos;t have enough money to go back , it also means making decisions so hard that they miss large investment officers of their employers .
so , in order to understand each other , i want to show you a very basic , very simple magic trick .
and i &apos;m going to show you how it works . this is a trick that &apos;s been in every magic book for kids since the 1950s .
i learned him from the cub scout magic of the path finder in the 1970s .
i &apos;m going to do it for you and then explain it .
and then i &apos;ll explain why i explain it .
so , look what happens .
the knife you can study , my hand that you can study .
i &apos;m just going to keep the knife in my lap like this .
i &apos;m going to push my sleeve back .
and to make sure that nothing in my sleeve disappears or comes out of it , i &apos;m just going to put my wrist right here .
through the non-participation , they spend up to 5,000 u.s. dollars a year on the employer who would have been happy to reproduce their contribution .
this is how you can see that no one is moving anything at any time , and as long as i &apos;m expressing here , nothing can go into my sleeve or come out .
and the goal here is very simple .
i &apos;m going to open my hand , and hopefully , if everything goes well , the knife is held by my mere physical magnetism .
it &apos;s actually sitting so hard in its place that i can shake it without the knife falling down .
nothing goes into my sleeve or comes out , no tricking , and you can study everything .
ta-da !
now , this is a trick that i often teach young kids who are interested in magic , because you can learn a lot about deception when you look closely , even though it &apos;s a very simple trick to do .
probably a lot of you in the room know this trick .
here &apos;s how it works .
i hold the knife in my hand .
paralysis is a consequence of too many choices .
i say that i include my wrist to make sure that nothing in my sleeve disappears or comes out , and that &apos;s a lie .
we &apos;re all born . we bring children to the world .
the reason i hold my wrist is because it &apos;s the real mystery of illusion .
because the moment i turn my hand away from you , so you can see it from the back , this finger is moving , my index finger , just from where it was , into a position where it &apos;s so extended .
great trick ?
there &apos;s somebody in the back who didn &apos;t have a childhood .
so , it &apos;s here . right .
and when i turn around , the finger changes its position .
and now you could talk about why this is a deception , why you don &apos;t perceive that there are only three fingers down here : because the mind and the way it process information doesn &apos;t count it , one , two , three , but see it as a group .
but that &apos;s really not what this is all about , and then i open my hand .
of course , it &apos;s held there , but not by the magnetism of my body , but by a trick , by my time finger , which is there now .
and i think it makes the world look like this .
and when i close my hand , the same thing happens by turning back , it &apos;s hidden by this movement that the finger is moving back .
i take that hand away . and here &apos;s the knife .
you can do this trick to your friends and neighbors . thank you .
now , what does this have to do with the placebo effect ?
a year ago or so , i read a study that really blew my mind .
i &apos;m not a doctor or a researcher , and that &apos;s why it was an amazing thing for me .
because what it turns out is , if you offer placebo in the form of a white pill , in the form of an aspirine tablet , it &apos;s just a round , white pill that has a particular measurable effect .
but if you change the shape in which you give the placebo , for example , into a smaller pill , and you shape these blue stains and a letter on it , it &apos;s actually measurably more effective .
and that , although none of them are pharmaceutical -- it &apos;s just sugar pills .
but a white pill is not as good as a blue pill .
you really want to make the decision right if it &apos;s forever , right ?
what ? that really freaked me out .
but it turns out that this is not all yet .
if you take capsules , they &apos;re even more effective than pills of each form .
a colored capsule , which is yellow at one end and on the other red , is better than a white capsule .
the dosage also matters .
a pill twice a day is not as good as three pills -- i can &apos;t remember the exact statistics now . i &apos;m sorry .
but the key thing is ...
... that the doses also matter .
and the shape plays a role .
and if you want to have the ultimate placebo effect , you have to reach the needle .
they don &apos;t want to choose the wrong investment fund , or even the wrong salatdressing .
right ? a syringe with an ineffective -- a few milliliters of an ineffective substance that you inject to a patient .
this creates a very strong picture in your head . it &apos;s much stronger than a white pill .
this graph is really -- i &apos;m going to show you another time we have a projector .
so the fact is that the white pill doesn &apos;t work as well as the blue pill , which doesn &apos;t work as well as a capsule that doesn &apos;t work as well as the needle .
and none of it has any really pharmaceutical property , and it &apos;s just our belief in it that makes a stronger impact in us .
i wanted to know if i could use this idea for a magic trick .
i take something that &apos;s obviously a deception , and i make it look real .
now , we know from this study that you have to reach the needle when you &apos;re supposed to do it .
this is an 18-inch helicopter needle . it &apos;s very , very sharp . and i &apos;m going to sterilize it a little bit first .
this is really my meat . it &apos;s not damians &apos; special breeding meat .
so this is the one effect . the other effect is that even if we overcome the paralysis and make a decision , we end up less satisfied with the outcome of choice than if we had the opportunity to choose between less possibilities .
this is my skin . this is not a special effect from hollywood .
so i &apos;m going to put this needle into my skin , and i &apos;m going to go through it , and i &apos;m going to put it back on the other side .
if you get evil -- if you fainted easily -- i showed this to a couple of friends last night in the hotel room , and some people i didn &apos;t know , and a woman has become almost powerful .
so i propose , if you &apos;re going to get bad quickly , look away for the next 30 seconds , or , you know , i &apos;m going to do the first heartfelt part in the back here .
you can see it in a moment , but you can also see away , if you want .
so , it goes like this , right here , where my meat begins , at the bottom of my arm , i &apos;m just going to make a little bit of a einstein .
i &apos;m really sorry . is it crazy ?
and now just a little bit through my skin and on the other side , again .
now we &apos;re actually in the same situation that we had at the knife trick .
about that .
and there are several reasons for this .
but now you can &apos;t count my fingers , right ?
so , i &apos;m going to show you . this is one , two , three , four , five .
well , yeah .
i know what people think when they see that .
they say , &quot; okay , it &apos;s probably not that stupid , and it &apos;s going to crack itself through the skin just for a few minutes . &quot;
well , then i &apos;m going to show you .
what does this look like ? pretty good .
yeah , i know .
and people in the back say , &quot; okay . i didn &apos;t really see that . &quot;
the people in the side rooms are coming in now .
one of them is supposed to be driven by the great selection of different salad ressings , when you buy one , and it &apos;s not perfect -- and what salatdressing is already perfect ? it &apos;s easy to imagine that you could have made another decision that would have been better . and what happened is this image-preferred alternative leads you to regret the decision , and that regret seems negative to the satisfaction that you had from your own decision , even if it was a good decision .
let me show you from near .
this is really my skin . this is not a special effect from hollywood .
this is my meat , and i can turn this around .
sorry . if you get evil , look away , don &apos;t look .
for example , take this child from barasana in the northwest of the amazon , the people of the anakonda , believe that mythologically , they came up from the east in the belly of sacred snakes .
the people in the back , or the ones who see this on video later on , will say , &quot; well , that looks pretty impressive , but if it was real , he would -- you see , here &apos;s a hole , and there , if it was real , it would bleed . &quot;
okay , let me squeeze some blood out for you .
yeah , here it is .
i would normally take the needle out now .
i would clean my arm and show you that there are no wounds .
but i think in this frame here , and with the intention of making something real out of a deception , i &apos;m just going to let the needle go in there and go off the stage .
the more possibilities there are , the easier it is to regret nothing at all , that &apos;s disappointing for the choice you make .
we &apos;re going to meet a few times in the next few days .
i hope you &apos;ll enjoy it . thank you very much .
everybody is talking about happiness today .
i &apos;ve had some people count the number of books that have been published with happiness in the title in the last five years , and they give up after about 40 , and there &apos;s a lot more .
there &apos;s a tremendous wave of interest in happiness among researchers .
there &apos;s a lot of happiness coaching .
everybody would like to make people happier .
but despite all this flood of work , there are several cognitive traps that sort of make it almost impossible to think clearly about happiness .
and my talk today is mostly going to be about these cognitive traps .
this is true of layman thinking about their own happiness , and it &apos;s true for scientists who think about happiness , because it turns out we &apos;re just as mess as everyone else .
second , what economists call oppertunity costs .
the first one of these falls is a contradiction to admit complexity .
it turns out that the word happiness is simply not a useful word anymore , because we apply it to too many different things .
i think there &apos;s a certain meaning that we could constrain it , but by and large , that &apos;s something we need to give up , and we &apos;re going to have to take the complicated view of what well-being is .
the second trap is a confusion of experience and memory : basically , it &apos;s between being happy in his life and being happy about his life or happy with his life .
and these are two very different concepts , and they &apos;re both put together in the idea of happiness .
and the third is the concentration illusion , and that &apos;s the unfortunate fact that we can &apos;t think about a circumstance that affects well-being without distorting its meaning .
i mean , this is a real cognitive trap .
there &apos;s just no way to get it right .
now , i &apos;d like to start with an example of someone who had a question and answer session after one of my lectures that reported a story . &#91; unclear &#93; he said he heard a symphony , and it was absolutely wonderful music , and at the end of the recording , there was a terrible circular sound .
and then he added in , really quite emotional , which has ruined the whole experience .
dan gilbert made a big point this morning by telling how much the way we evaluate things depends on what we compare it .
but it didn &apos;t have that .
what it ruined was the memories of the experience .
he had the experience .
he had had 20 minutes of glorious music .
they didn &apos;t count because he was left with a memory ; the memory was ruined , and the memory was all he had gotten to keep .
what this really tells us is that we could think about ourselves and other people in the sense of two kinds of self .
there is a living self that lives in the present and knows the present , able to experience the past , but has basically only the present .
it &apos;s the living self that the doctor calls -- you know , when the doctor asks , &quot; does it hurt when i touch you here ? &quot;
and then there &apos;s a remembering self , and the remembering self is the one that counts and receives the story of our lives , and it &apos;s the one that the doctor addresses by asking the question , &quot; how have you felt lately ? &quot;
or &quot; what was your journey to albania ? &quot; or something like that .
well , if there are a lot of alternatives to think about , it &apos;s easy to imagine attractive properties of alternatives that you exclude , that makes you less happy with the alternatives you &apos;ve chosen .
these are two very different units , the living self and the memorable self , and to confuse the two is part of the penetration of happiness .
well , the memory itself is a storyteller .
and that really starts with a fundamental reaction to our memories -- it starts immediately .
we don &apos;t just tell stories when we make ourselves tell stories .
our memory tells us stories , which means that what we can keep from our experiences is a story .
and let &apos;s start with an example .
there &apos;s an old study .
these are real patients who are undergoing a painful procedure .
i &apos;m not going to go into the details . she &apos;s not painful anymore , but she was painful when this study was done in the 1990s .
they were asked to report their pain every 60 seconds .
here &apos;s an example . for those of you who are not new yorkers , i apologize .
and here are two patients . these are their records .
and they &apos;re asked , &quot; who suffered more from both ? &quot;
and that &apos;s a very simple question .
patient b clearly suffered more . his gut reflection was longer , and every minute of pain that patient a had , patient b , and more .
but now there &apos;s another question : &quot; how much did these patients think they were suffering ? &quot;
and here &apos;s a surprise .
and the surprise is that patient a had a much worse memory of the gut reflection than patients b had .
the stories of the reflections were different , and because a very important part of the story is how it ends .
and none of these stories are very construction or great -- but one of them is this clear ...
but one of them is far worse than the other .
but here &apos;s what you should have thought .
and the one that &apos;s worse was where the pain was at the very end of the climax . it &apos;s a bad story .
how do we know that ?
because we asked these people about their reflection , and much later , &quot; how bad was the whole thing ? &quot;
and it was much worse for a than it was for b in memory .
well , this is a direct conflict between the living self and the remembering self .
clearly , from the perspective of the living self , b had a worse time .
well , what you could do with patient a , and we actually did clinical experiments , and it &apos;s been done , and it works , you could actually extend the reflection of patient a by just letting the tube in without shaking too much on it .
that &apos;s going to lead to the patient suffering , but only a little bit less than before .
and if you do that for a few minutes , you &apos;ve made the living self of patient a is worse off , and you &apos;ve made the memory of the patient a much better off , because now you &apos;ve given patient a a a better story about his experience .
what is a story about ?
here &apos;s a couple on the hampton .
and that &apos;s true of the stories that memory provides us , and it &apos;s true of the stories that we invent .
and what a story does is it breaks , major moments and ends .
end is very , very important , and in this case , dominated the end .
well , the living self lives its life continuously .
it has moments of life , one after another .
and you ask : what happens to these moments ?
and the answer is really simple . they &apos;re lost forever .
i mean , most of the moments of our lives -- and i &apos;ve calculated this -- you know , the psychological present is about three seconds , which means , you know , there are about 600 million of them in a lifetime . in a month there are about 600,000 . most of them don &apos;t leave any trace .
most of you are completely ignored by the memory itself .
and yet somehow you get the impression that you should count that what happened during that moment of life is our lives .
very expensive real estate .
it &apos;s the limited resource we consume while we &apos;re in this world .
and how we use it would seem to be important , but that &apos;s not the story that keeps the memory for ourselves .
so we have the memorable self and the living self , and they &apos;re really quite different .
the biggest difference between them is dealing with time .
from the perspective of the living self , if you have a vacation , and the second week is just as good as the first one , then the two-week vacation is twice as good as the one-week vacation .
that &apos;s not how it works at all for the memory of the self .
for the remembering self , a two-week vacation is barely better than the one-week vacation , because there are no new memories added .
they didn &apos;t change the story .
and in this way , time is actually the critical variable that distinguishes a memorable self from a living self , time has very little impact on this story .
well , the remembering self makes more than remembering and telling stories .
beautiful beach . great day . you have it all for yourself .
it &apos;s actually the one who makes decisions , because if you have a patient who had , say , two representations of two different surgeons and decides which to vote for , then the one who chooses the memory is less bad , and that &apos;s the surgeon who &apos;s going to be chosen .
the living self has no voice in that choice .
in fact , we don &apos;t choose between experiences . we choose between memories of experiences .
and even when we think about the future , we don &apos;t usually think of our future as experiences .
we think about our future as predicted memories .
and basically , you can look at this , you know , as a tyranny of memory self , and you can think of the remembering self as one that kind of draws the living self through experiences that doesn &apos;t need the living self .
i have the impression that when we make vacation , it &apos;s very common , which means we make vacation largely in the service of the memory itself .
and that &apos;s a little hard to justify , i think .
i mean , how much do we take from our memories ?
this is one of the explanations that is given to the dominance of memory itself .
what could be better ? &quot; damn &quot; the man thinks , &quot; it &apos;s august .
and when i think about it , i think of a vacation that we did a couple of years ago in antarctica , which was clearly the best vacation i &apos;d ever had , and i think of it quite often in relation to how many times i think of other vacation .
and i &apos;ve probably been feeding from my memories of this three-week journey , i would say , for about 25 minutes in the last four years .
well , if i had ever opened the folder with the 600 pictures in it , i would have spent another hour .
well , that &apos;s three weeks , and that &apos;s at least one and a half hours .
this is a people who don &apos;t distinguish cognitively between the colors of blue and green , because the celestial scene equals the forest that people depend on .
there seems to be a disagreement .
now , i may be a little extreme , you know , in how little appetite i have on the toes of memories , but even if you make more of it , there &apos;s a real question . why do we give memories so much weight in the mind of the weight that we experience ?
so i want you to think about a thought experiment .
imagine your next vacation , you know that at the end of the vacation , all of your images are destroyed , and you get an amnesiac drug , so you won &apos;t remember anything .
well , would you choose the same vacation ?
and if you were to choose another vacation , there &apos;s a conflict between your two kinds of self and you have to think about how you decide this conflict , and that &apos;s really not obvious at all , because if you think about time , you might get an answer . and if you think about memories , you might get another answer .
everyone in my manhattan neighborhood is gone .
why we choose the vacation that we choose is a problem that we face with a choice between the two types of self .
well , the two kinds of self are throwing down two terms of happiness .
there are actually two concepts of happiness that we can apply , one per person .
so you can ask : how happy is the living self ?
and then you would ask : how happy are the moments of life itself ?
and they &apos;re all -- happiness for moments is a pretty complicated process .
what are the emotions that can be measured ?
and , by the way , we &apos;re now able to get a pretty good idea of the happiness of the living self over time .
if you ask for the luck of remembering self , it &apos;s a very different thing .
this is not about how happy a person lives .
i could park right in front of my house . &quot;
it &apos;s about how happy or happy the person is when they think about their lives .
very different terms .
anyone who doesn &apos;t distinguish these terms will mash the exploration of happiness , and i &apos;m part of a lot of researchers about well-being who have long mapped the exploration of happiness in this very way .
the distinction between the happiness of the living self and the happiness of the memory self has been recognized in the last few years , and now you &apos;re trying to measure the two separate .
the gallup organization has a global survey where more than half a million people have been asked questions about what they think about their lives and about their experiences , and there have been other efforts in the direction .
so in the last few years , we &apos;ve started to learn about the happiness of the two kinds of self .
and the main lesson that i think we &apos;ve learned is that they &apos;re really different .
you can know how happy someone is with his life , and that really doesn &apos;t teach them much about how happy he lives his life and vice versa .
just to give you a sense of correlation , the correlation is about .5 .
what that means is that if you met somebody , and you would tell them , oh , his father is a two-meter man , how much would you know about his size ?
and he spends two weeks from the thought that he missed the possibility of having a great parking lot day after day .
well , you &apos;d know something about its size , but there &apos;s a lot of uncertainty .
they have so much uncertainty .
if i tell you that somebody has put their life as eight on a scale of 10 , they have a lot of uncertainty about how happy they are with their living selves .
so the correlation is low .
we know something about what determines the happiness of happiness itself .
we know that money is very important , goals are very important .
we know that happiness is mainly about being satisfied with people we like to spend time with people we like .
there are other pleasures , but that &apos;s dominant .
so if you want to maximize the happiness of the two kinds of self , you will end up doing very different things .
the conclusion of what i said here is that we really shouldn &apos;t think of happiness as a replacement for well-being .
oppertunity costs down the happiness that we get through our selection , even though what we &apos;ve chosen is fantastic .
it &apos;s a completely different term .
well , very briefly , another reason that we can &apos;t really think about happiness is because we don &apos;t pay attention to the same things when we think about life and when we actually live .
so if you ask the simple question of how happy people in california are , you &apos;re not going to get the correct answer .
if you ask that question , you think that people in california have to be happier if they live in ohio , say .
and what happens is , when you think about life in california , you think about the difference between california and other places , and that difference is , say , in the climate .
well , it turns out that climate is not very important for the living self , and it &apos;s not even very important for the thoughtful self that decides how happy people are .
well , because the thoughtful self is responsible , you can end up -- some people could go to california at the end .
and it &apos;s kind of interesting to pursue what happens to people who move to california hoping to become happier .
well , your living self is not going to be happier .
we know that .
and the more choices there are to choose , the more attractive features of this choice are considered in the oppertunity cost .
but one thing is going to happen . you &apos;re going to think you &apos;re happier , because if you think about it , you &apos;re going to be reminded of how terrible the weather was in ohio , and you &apos;re going to feel you &apos;ve made the right decision .
it &apos;s very difficult to think clearly about well-being , and i hope i &apos;ve given you a sense of how difficult it is .
thank you .
thank you . i have a question for you .
thank you .
now , when we were talking about phone calls a few weeks ago , they were mentioning to me that there was a pretty interesting outcome that came out of this gallup survey .
is that something you can let us participate in , because you &apos;ve got a few minutes left ?
daniel kahneman : sure .
i think the most interesting thing we found in the gallup poll is a number that we absolutely didn &apos;t expect to find .
we found this in terms of the happiness of the living self .
here &apos;s another example .
when we looked at how feelings are varied with income .
and it turns out that under an income of 60,000 dollars a year , for americans , and that &apos;s a very large sample of americans , about 600,000 , but it &apos;s a big representative sample , under an income of 600,000 dollars a year .
60,000 .
dk : 60,000 .
60,000 dollars a year , people are unhappy , and they become increasingly less happy , the poorer they get .
we get an absolutely flat line on that .
i mean , i rarely saw flat lines .
what happens is , obviously , money doesn &apos;t get you an experience of happiness , but that lack of money certainly gets you miserable , and we can measure this misery very , very clearly .
in the spirit of the other self , the memory itself , you get a different story .
the more money you make the happier you are .
well , this cartoon makes some statements .
that &apos;s not true of emotions .
but danny , in the entire american endeavor , is about life , freedom , the pursuit of happiness .
if people were to take this evidence seriously , i mean , it seems to turn everything on its head , everything we believe , for example , in terms of tax policy and so on .
is there a chance that politicians in general would take a finding and make it seriously based on politics ?
dk : you know , i think there &apos;s recognition for the role of happiness research in politics .
recognition is going to be slow in the united states , not a question , but in the united kingdom it &apos;s happening right now , and it &apos;s happening in other countries .
people are recognizing that they should think about happiness when they think about politics .
it &apos;s going to take a while , and people are going to discuss whether they want to explore experience happiness , or whether they want to explore life grades , so we have to have this discussion pretty soon .
how you can increase happiness very differently depends on how you think , and whether you think about the remembering self , or whether you think about the life itself .
this is going to affect politics , i think , in the coming years .
he makes a statement about this in the now , and maybe slowly doing things about it .
in the united states , it &apos;s hard to measure the experience happiness of the population .
this will , i think , be part of the national statistics in the next decade or two .
well , it seems to me that this topic is going to be , or should at least be the most interesting political debate for the next few years .
thank you very much for the invention of behavioral economics .
thank you , danny kahneman .
i &apos;m jane mcgonigal . i &apos;m designing computer games .
i &apos;ve been developing online games for 10 years now , and my goal for the next decade is to make it as easy to save the world in reality as it is to save in online games .
i have a plan for this . i want to convince more people , including all of you , to spend more time playing bigger and great games .
now we spend three billion hours a week playing online games .
some of you might think , &quot; that &apos;s a lot of time for games . &quot;
but one important thing that he does is , every time you choose to do one thing , you don &apos;t choose to do other things .
maybe a little too much time when you think about how many problems we have to solve in the real world .
but in fact , my research at the institute of the future is exactly the opposite .
three billion hours a week are not nearly enough to solve the world &apos;s most urgent problems .
in fact , i believe that if we want to survive the next century on the planet , we need to dramatically increase that time .
i &apos;ve calculated that the time it takes is 21 billion hours a week of play .
this may seem a little bit disgusting first , so i repeat it to make it work : if we want to solve problems like hunger , poverty , climate change , global conflicts and obesity , i think we need to try to play games online for at least 21 billion hours a week to the end of the next decade .
no , i &apos;m really serious .
why ? this picture pretty much describes why i think games are so critical for the survival of the human species in the future . seriously .
this is a portrait of the photographer phil toledano .
he wanted to capture the feelings when he was playing , so he built a camera in front of the players .
and these other things may have a lot of attractive properties , and it will become what they do less attractive .
this is one of the classic expressions of play .
if you &apos;re not a player , you might have some of the nuances in this picture .
you probably see this sense of urgency , a little bit of fear , but also external concentration , very deep into solving a really difficult problem .
if you &apos;re also playing , you see some nuances here that are upward eyes , and the mouth is a sign of optimism , and the eyebrows are surprising .
this is a player standing on the edge of what &apos;s called an epic victory .
they have a strange language and a marriage regulation called linguistic exogamy : you have to marry someone who speaks a different language .
oh , you know that . ok . so we have some players here .
an epic victory is a result that is so exceedingly positive that you didn &apos;t know that it was possible at all .
it was almost beyond the imagination .
and when you reach it , you &apos;re shocked that you &apos;re actually capable of something like this . this is an epic victory .
this is a player just before an epic victory .
third , escalation of expectations .
and this is what we have to see on millions of faces of problem solvers around the world , if we take on the hurdles of the next century , the face of those who are on the verge of all the adversity of an epic victory .
well , unfortunately , we &apos;re more likely to see this face in real life when we face difficult problems .
i call it &quot; in life i &apos;m bad &quot; face . and it &apos;s actually my face , right ? ok .
that &apos;s me making the &quot; i &apos;m bad &quot; face in life .
this is a graffiti in my former home in berkeley , california , where i studied in my ph.d. , why we are better at play than we are in real life .
that &apos;s a problem that a lot of players have .
we think in reality , we &apos;re not as good as we are in games .
and i don &apos;t just mean less successfully , even though that belongs .
we &apos;re reaching more in games . i mean , in the context of motivation to do something significant , inspired to work with each other .
if we &apos;re in a game world , i believe that many of us are turning into our best version , anytime and instantly helpful , are willing to solve the problem , as long as it takes , as we need to try again after the failure .
this is what struck me when i wanted to exchange my jeans .
and in reality , when we fail , when we hit obstacles , we often feel different .
we feel overwhelmed . we feel defeated . we feel threatened , maybe depressed , frustrated or cynical .
we never have these feelings when we play games , in games , they just don &apos;t exist .
and this is what i wanted to study as a ph.d. student .
why is it impossible in games to think you couldn &apos;t just do everything ?
how can we transfer these feelings from the games into reality ?
so i looked at games like the world of warcraft , which offers the ideal environment to collaborative problem solving .
and i &apos;ve found some things that make epic victories so possible in online worlds .
so , first of all , when you go into one of these online games , especially in the world of warcraft , there are a lot of different characters who are willing to trust you a global mission right now .
but not just any mission , but a mission that fit perfectly to your current level in the game , right ?
i &apos;m wearing jeans , almost all the time .
so they do that .
they never get a task that they can &apos;t solve .
but always on the edge of your skill , so you have to be hard , but there &apos;s no unemployment in the world of warcraft .
you don &apos;t sit around and twist . there &apos;s always something important to do .
and there are lots of employees .
wherever you go , hundreds of thousands of people working with you to finish your epic mission .
we don &apos;t have that easy in real life , that feeling that there &apos;s a fingertip that &apos;s ready for employees to do this .
and also , there &apos;s this epic story , this inspiring story of why we are there and what we have to do .
then we get all this positive feedback .
you &apos;ve heard of &quot; level up &quot; and &quot; + 1 strength &quot; or &quot; + 1 intelligence . &quot;
and there was a time when there was only jeans in one way , and they bought them , and they missed them , they were incredibly uncomfortable , and if they were wearing them long enough and washed often enough , they started to feel &quot; ok . &quot;
this constant feedback is not in real life .
when i leave this stage , i don &apos;t have plus-one speech and + 1 crazy idea , + 20 crazy idea .
i don &apos;t get that feedback in real life .
so , the problem of cooperative online worlds like world of warcraft is that it &apos;s so satisfying to be on the edge of an epic victory , that we prefer to spend all of our time in these worlds .
they &apos;re just better than reality .
so far , all the world of warcraftsmen together have spent 5.93 million years solving the virtual problems of azeroth .
that &apos;s not necessarily bad .
it may sound bad .
but to see it in context , 5.93 million years ago , our first primate ancestors began to go upright .
so the first exciting primate .
so i went to buy new jeans after many years of old , and i said , &quot; i &apos;d like to have a few jeans , here &apos;s my size . &quot;
ok , so when we talk about how much time we spend now playing , it just makes sense when you think about the scale of human development , which is extraordinary .
but also , because it turns out that by using all this time on play , we &apos;re actually changing what we can do as people .
we &apos;re developing into collaborative thinking , heartfelt creatures .
that &apos;s the truth . that &apos;s what i believe .
look at these interesting statistics recently published by a researcher at carnegie mellon university : the average young person in a country with strong play culture spends 10,000 hours with online games to the 21st year of life .
so , 10,000 hours is a very interesting number for two reasons .
first of all , for kids in the united states , 10,080 hours is the exact total amount that they spend in school , from the fifth grade to the degree of high school -- if you never miss .
so here we have a complete parallel education where young people learn as well , what it means to be a good player as anything else they learn in school .
and maybe some of you have read the new book by malcolm gladwell , &quot; flying over . &quot;
so you know his theory of success , the theory of success of 10,000 hours .
and the salesman said , &quot; do you want snake , lightweight or extension ?
it &apos;s based on the great research of cognitive science that if we spend 10,000 hours studying any subject to the 21st year of life , we become masters in it .
we &apos;re getting so good at doing whatever it is , like the most significant people in the world .
so what we have here is a complete generation of young people who are master-players .
so the big question is , &quot; what exactly are players masterically good at ? &quot;
because if we could figure that out , we would have basically never had any human potential before .
so many people now in the world who spend at least an hour a day playing online games .
these are our master-players , 500 million people who are extraordinarily good at something .
and in the next decade , we have another billion players who are extraordinarily good at whatever .
if you haven &apos;t heard it .
the game industry is developing consoles that save energy and work on mobile networks , instead of the broadband internet , so that players around the world , especially in india , china , brazil can play online .
do you want to buttons or shutters ? stone or acid ?
you expect an extra billion players in the next decade .
so we have 1.5 billion players in total .
so i started to think about what it is that these games make us masters .
here are the four things i found . first of all , urgency optimism .
ok , think of this as extreme self-motivation .
urgency optimism is the desire to do something immediately , to master a hurdle , along with the belief that we have a founded hope for success .
players always believe that an epic victory is possible , and that it &apos;s always worth trying , and it &apos;s the same .
players are not sitting around .
players in spiders are poets of social nets .
there &apos;s a lot of interesting studies that show that we like people more after we played with them , even when they defeated us .
do you want jeans with holes ?
the reason for that is that it requires a lot of trust to play a game with somebody .
we trust that somebody spends time with us , that the rules are held , that we have the same goal and stay with the game end .
so the interaction allows the growth of ties , trust and with each other .
as a result , we &apos;re building stronger social relationships .
happy productivity . fantastic !
you know , there &apos;s a reason why the average word of warcrafts-player is playing 22 hours a week , sort of as a part-time job .
the reason is that when we play , we &apos;re actually happier at working hard than when we relax or do nothing .
we know that we work optimally as human beings when we do hard , meaningful work .
and players are always ready to work hard when they get the right task .
and finally , epic meaning .
you want to cut far down , cookie , blah blah , blah , blah , blah , blah , and so on .
players love to become part of the awe of planetary extent .
here &apos;s a backbone formation to put that in the right light , and you know all wikipedia , the largest wiki in the world .
the second largest wiki in the world , with almost 80,000 entries , is the world of warcraft wiki .
five million people use it every month .
they &apos;ve put more information together about the world of warcraft on the internet than any other subject in every other wiki in the world .
they create an epic story .
they create an epic source of knowledge about the world of warcraft .
ok , so these are four superpowers that lead to a single outcome : players are super-powerful , hopeful individuals .
it &apos;s people who believe that they can change the world as individuals .
and the only problem is that you think you can change the virtual worlds , but not the real .
my jaw was down , and after i recovered , i said , &quot; i &apos;d like the way that used to be the only species . &quot;
that &apos;s the problem i &apos;m trying to solve .
edward castronova is a economist .
his work is brilliant . he studies why people spend so much time , energy and money in online worlds .
and he says , &quot; we &apos;re going to witness no less than a mass migration in virtual worlds and online games . &quot;
and this is from an economist . so he &apos;s logical .
and he says ...
all of this is rooted in the mythological past , and the strange thing about these big houses where six or seven languages are spoken because of the mischief , but you never hear anyone who learns a language .
not like me -- i &apos;m developing , i &apos;m a little bit overwhelmed .
so he says , this actually makes sense , because players can achieve more in online worlds than in real life .
you can knit stronger social ties in games than you can in real life , you get more feedback and rewards in games than you do in real life .
so , he says , it &apos;s currently completely logical that players spend more time in the virtual world than in the real world .
he had no idea what that was , so i spent an hour trying all these damn jeans , and i left the business -- and i say the truth -- with the best appropriate jeans i &apos;ve ever had .
i &apos;ll just agree , that &apos;s logical .
but it &apos;s definitely not an optimal situation .
we need to start to turn the real world into a game .
my inspiration comes from an event that &apos;s 2,500 years back .
there are these ancient cubes out of sheep . you know ?
before these fantastic game controllers , there were sheep necessary .
and these were sort of the first toys that people developed .
and if you &apos;re familiar with the work of the ancient greek historian herodotus , you may know this story , the story of how and why games have been invented .
so , according to herodotus , games , more specifically , were invented in the kingdom of lydics during a famine .
supposedly , there was such a famine that the king of lydia decided to make a crazy idea .
i had better . all this choice allowed me to have better .
people suffered . people fought .
it was an extreme situation . you needed an extreme solution .
so they invented , according to herodotus , the cube game and united a national strategy , and one day you would eat , and the next day you would play .
and they would be so deeply immersed in the cube , because games are so fascinating and surrounded with satisfying , happy productivity that they would forget that there was nothing to eat .
and then the next day you would play , and the next day you would eat .
and according to herodotus , they survived this famine for so 18 years by eating one day and playing the next .
likewise , i think , we &apos;re putting games in today .
we use games to escape the suffering of the real world .
we put games in order to get out of everything that doesn &apos;t work in the real world , all of that in real life is not satisfying , and we get what we need from the games .
but that doesn &apos;t have to be the end .
but i felt worse .
that &apos;s the exciting thing .
according to herodotus , after 18 years , the famine didn &apos;t get better , so the king decided to use a last cube game .
they divided the kingdom into two halves .
they played a cube game , and the winners were allowed to break up to an epic adventure .
they left lydics , and they went looking for a new home , and they just left as many people as there were food for survival , and they were looking for the rest of the area where they could thrive .
it sounds crazy , right ?
but latest dna evidence shows that the etrushermen who later formed the roman empire have the same dna as the old lydics .
so scientists recently came to the idea that herodotus &apos; crazy story is actually true .
and geologists found evidence of a global cooling that took almost 20 years to explain what the famine might be .
so this crazy story could be true .
why ? i wrote a whole book to try to explain it to myself .
maybe they actually rescued their people by playing games for 18 years , and then they had this forgiveness and learned so much about playing with each other that they saved the whole civilization .
so , we can do that too .
we &apos;ve been playing warcraft since 1994 .
this was the first strategy game in real time of the world of warcraft series . this was 16 years ago .
they were playing cube games for 18 years , we &apos;ve been playing warcraft for 16 years .
i &apos;m saying we &apos;re ready for our own epic game .
so , they sent half of their civilization to search for a new world , so i take my 21 billion hours a week .
we should survive in the fact that half of us spend an hour a day playing , until we &apos;ve solved the real world problems .
i know you &apos;re going to ask , &quot; how do we solve the real world &apos;s problems ? &quot; and that &apos;s exactly what i &apos;ve been doing for the last few years at the institute of the future .
we have this banner in our palo alto office , and it expresses how we should understand the future .
the reason that i felt worse , with all these possibilities available , my expectations for what makes up a good couple of jeans , went up .
we don &apos;t want to try to say the future before .
what we want is to create the future .
we want to imagine the best possible outcome , and then empower people to put this idea into reality .
we imagine epic victories , and we give people the opportunity to reach them .
i &apos;m going to show you very briefly three games that i &apos;ve designed to try to get people to see epic victories in their own future .
this is &quot; world without oil . &quot;
the game is from 2007 .
it &apos;s an online game where you have to overcome an oil scarcity .
we tested this game with 1,700 players in 2007 , and we &apos;ve been accompaniing them for the last three years since .
i had very low expectations . i had no concrete expectations when there was only one kind of thing .
and i can tell you , it was a change experience .
nobody wants to change their lives because it &apos;s good for the environment , or because we should .
but if you &apos;re in an epic adventure and you say , &quot; we &apos;re going to run out of oil . &quot;
this is a fascinating adventure that you go to .
figure out how to survive . most of our players have kept the habits in the game .
so for the next world-changing game , we &apos;ve set ourselves a bigger , higher goal than just oil scarcity .
we &apos;ve developed the game &quot; superstruct &quot; at the institute for the future .
so the starting point is the computation of a supercomputer , that people only have 23 years left on the planet .
this supercomputer is called &quot; global mortality , &quot; of course .
the call for players to sign up , we &apos;ve created almost like a &quot; jerry bruckheimer &quot; movie .
when they came in 100 species , damn , one of them should have been perfect .
you know jerry bruckheimer movies , where there &apos;s the &quot; dream-team , &quot; and they have the astronauts , the scientists , the ex-strings , and only together they can save the world .
but in our game , instead of just five people , let &apos;s say everyone is in the dream-team , and it &apos;s our job to create the future for energy , food , health , security and the future of social justice .
8,000 players played the game for eight weeks .
they found 500 incredibly creative solutions that they can read when they google &quot; superstruct . &quot;
and the last game we bring out on march three , which is a game in collaboration with the world bank .
if you close the game , from the world bank , you get the award of social change , 2010 .
we work with universities across sub-saharan africa and invite them to learn social redesign .
we have a comic book . we have &quot; level high &quot; for regional understanding , knowledge networking , sustainability , vision and ingenuity .
i &apos;d like to invite you all to share this game with young people all over the world , especially in developing areas , who are benefiting from imagining their own social enterprises to save the world .
i &apos;m going to end now .
and what i got was good , but it wasn &apos;t perfect .
i want to ask you something .
what do you think happens next ?
we have all these fantastic players , we have games that show us what we can do , but we haven &apos;t saved the real world yet .
well , i hope you &apos;ll agree that players are human resources that we can use to work in real life , and that games have a huge meaning for change .
we have all these superpowers , happy productivity , the ability to tap into tight social nets , urgency optimism and desire for epic meaning .
i really hope that we &apos;re playing meaningful games together to survive another century on this planet .
and i hope you &apos;ll design and play with me like this .
when i look forward in the next decade , i &apos;m sure in two things : that we can create any imaginable future , and that we can play all kinds of games .
so i say , let the world-changing games start !
thank you .
and so i compared what i had gotten to what i expected , and what i had was disappointing compared to what i expected .
i &apos;d like to tell you something that came to mind a couple of months ago in writing an article for italian wired .
i &apos;ve always taken my synonymous dictionary in writing , but i &apos;ve been done with the process of texting , and i realized that i &apos;ve never been in my life , which is what the word &quot; disabled &quot; really means .
i &apos;m going to read you the entry .
&quot; disabled , &quot; adjectively : &quot; curved , helpless , useless , destroyed , deceased , mutilated , wounded , disgusted , laid , separated , served , weaked , impotent , cranked , paralyzed , handicapt senil , weak , pulled out of traffic , relieved , broken , counted , injured , injured , injured , useless and weak .
antonym : healthy , strong , powerful . &quot;
i read this list to a friend loud , and i had to laugh for the first time , it worked so ridiculously , but i just got up to &quot; dissuited &quot; and i couldn &apos;t talk , and i had to stop reading , and i had to collect myself first after this over-like word tide and the interconnected emotional shock .
of course , this was an old synonymous dictionary , and i just thought that the copy must be quite old .
but in fact , it was a copy of the early &apos; 80s when i was just starting elementary school and starting to build and shape my self-image outside my family field , in terms of other children and the rest of the world around me .
and thank god i didn &apos;t use a synonymous dictionary at the time .
if i took this post seriously , i would be born into a world that someone like me would perceive as a person whose life can &apos;t be positive in any way , but today i &apos;m going to be celebrated for the opportunities and adventure that i &apos;ve experienced .
adding opportunities to people &apos;s lives inevitably increase people &apos;s expectations about how well these possibilities are going to be .
so i immediately called up the online release of 2009 , and i expected myself to find a more appealing contribution here .
here &apos;s the updating version of this contract .
unfortunately , it &apos;s not much better .
in particular , the last two words shoot me under &quot; near antonyms &quot; all &quot; and &quot; healthy . &quot;
but it &apos;s not just about the words .
it &apos;s about what we think about the people we describe with these words .
you just listen and then you start talking .
it &apos;s about the values that are in these words , and how we construct these values .
our language affects our thinking and how we see the world and the people around us .
many ancient societies , including the greeks and the romans , have really believed that the language of a flight has a great force , because what you &apos;re talking about can also manifest .
so , what do we really want to manifest -- a disabled person or a powerful person ?
and this leads to less satisfaction with the results , even though the results are good .
just to call a human being mindless than child , could be enough to restrict them and to give them ideas .
wouldn &apos;t it be more beautiful to open doors to you ?
one person who opened doors for me was my pediatrician at the a.i. dupont institute in wilmington in delaware .
it &apos;s called dr. pizzutillo . it &apos;s a italo american whose name , as you can imagine , most americans couldn &apos;t speak correctly , so he was always called dr. p.
and dr. p. always carried very colorful flies and was just like , for working with kids .
i thought the time i spent in this hospital was just great -- except for my physical therapy .
i had to repeat individual practices , seemingly infinitely , with these thick , elastic bands -- in different colors -- you know that to build my leg muscles , and i hated these benches more than anything else . i hated them . i &apos;ve hated them . i &apos;ve hated them .
and imagine i &apos;ve even negotiated with dr. p. as a child of five , trying to stop these practices , naturally without success .
and one day he saw me in one of my practices -- these practices were just tiring and gnadening -- and he said to me , &quot; wow , aimee , you &apos;re such a strong , powerful and young girl , you &apos;re going to tear one of these benches one day .
and if you can do it , i &apos;ll give you a hundred dollars . &quot;
nobody in the world of marketing knows this , because , if you did , you all don &apos;t know what this is about .
it was just a simple trick , of course , by dr. p. , so i could do the exercises that i didn &apos;t want to do with the realization that richest five year-old girls in the hospital would be in the second floor , but he actually got me to see my daily practice horror with new eyes , so it became a new and promising experience .
and i wonder today how much his vision of me as a strong and powerful young girl shaped my self-image , and i could imagine thinking of myself as one of nature of strong , powerful and atlethal human beings .
this is just one example of how adults in positions of power can stimulate the imagination of a child .
but as the examples that have already been quoted from synonymous dictionaries , our language doesn &apos;t allow us to imagine something that we would all wish : to allow every single person to see themselves as powerful people .
our language follows the social changes that have been triggered in many cases by a technological change .
from a medical standpoint , you can say , of course , that my legs , the laser surgery , for visually impaired , knee joints from titan and artificial hip joints for aging bodies that allow people to really use all of their possibilities , and beyond the limits that have set them their natural destiny , to develop , not to speak of social networking platforms , people are allowed to have their own identity , define themselves in their own way , and orient to groups around the world that they choose themselves .
so maybe this technological change is more clear than ever , that there has always been a different truth , which is that every human in society can give something very special and very powerful , and that the human ability to adapt is our biggest plus .
the human ability to adapt -- this is an interesting story , because people are always asking me to tell me how i deal with adversity , and i &apos;m going to tell you something : this sentence has never fit for me , and i &apos;ve always felt very uncomfortable with answering the questions of people , and i think , gradually , i understand why .
this phrase of dealing with vienna lives on the idea that success or happiness depends on mastering a challenge without being shaped by it . as if my life had been so successful , because i could deviate the possible falling of a life with a prosthetic , or whatever people perceive me with my disability .
but the truth is that we change . of course , we are shaped by the challenge , whether it &apos;s physical , emotional or even both .
the truth is more like this .
and i &apos;m saying that that &apos;s good .
adversity is not an obstacle that we need to update in order to better deal with our lives .
adversity is just part of our lives .
and i tend to think of widows as my shadow .
sometimes i realize it &apos;s very present , sometimes it &apos;s hardly seen , but it &apos;s constantly with me .
and i don &apos;t want to put the effect , or the severe of a person &apos;s fight down .
there are vienna and challenges in life , and they &apos;re just ubiquitous , and each person is going to deal with it differently , but the question is not whether we &apos;re going to deal with adversity or not , but how we deal with it .
so not only are we responsible for preserving the people we love from fatalities , but also preparing them to get good with it .
and we don &apos;t like our kids if we give them the feeling that they can &apos;t adapt .
two things are clear : one , medical fact , to be amputated and to the other , the social opinion about whether i &apos;m disabled or not .
the reason is that it used to be better than anything worse than anything worse , it was possible for people to experience a pleasant surprise .
and to be honest , the only real and persistent disability that i had to deal with is that the world is constantly meant to describe me with these definitions .
in our desire to protect the people we care about and to tell them the cold , hard truth about their medical forecast , or even to promote a quality of life prediction that they expect , we have to pay attention that we don &apos;t lay the baseline for someone to actually be disabled .
maybe the current concept that &apos;s just paying attention to what &apos;s in a broken , and how we fix it , for every single one , is a greater disability than the pathology itself .
if we don &apos;t treat a human being , and we don &apos;t perceive all its forces and possibilities and acknowledge , in addition to the natural struggle that you might have to lead , another disease .
we degrade a person who has value for our society .
so we have to look beyond the patology and focus on all the domain of human possibilities .
but most importantly , there is a connection between the perception of our inadequacy and our great ingenuity .
we should not devalue or deny these challenging times , we should not try to avoid them , nor should we return them under the carpet , but it &apos;s about recognizing the opportunity in the vienna .
i think it &apos;s more about making sure that we don &apos;t necessarily have to overcome adversity , but that we &apos;re open to embrace it , to grab it at the crop , to use a fight expression , and perhaps even dance with it .
and we might be able to think of vienna as something natural , coherent and useful , so we don &apos;t feel so disturbed by their presence .
today , in the world we live in -- we wealthy , industrialized citizens , with perfection as an expectation -- the best thing you can ever hope for is that things are as good as you expect them .
this year , we celebrate the 200th anniversary of charles darwin , and when he wrote about evolution 150 years ago , darwin , in my view , pointed out to something very true in human character .
i would rewrite it this way : not the strongest of its species survives , and not the most intelligent of its kind , but the one that can best adapt to change .
conflicts emerge creativity .
not only from darwin &apos;s work do we know that the ability of man to survive and to flourish is determined by the struggle of the human mind to transform through conflict .
so , again , change and customization are the greatest skills of human beings .
and maybe we don &apos;t know what wood we &apos;re cut out of when we &apos;re really being tested .
maybe that &apos;s the sense of adversity , a sense of i.e. , a sense of our own power .
we can give ourselves something like this .
we can give new meaning to adversity that goes beyond severe times .
maybe we can see adversity as a change .
you &apos;re never going to be surprised , because your expectations , my expectations , are home high .
adversity is a change that we haven &apos;t adapted to yet .
i think the biggest damage we &apos;ve done to ourselves is to believe that we should be normal .
let &apos;s face it -- who &apos;s normal ?
there &apos;s no normal .
there &apos;s the usual one . the typical one , but not the normal one , and would you really want to know this poor , gray person , if there really were you ?
i don &apos;t think that &apos;s more likely .
it would be great if we could change this paradigm of normality against another one of the possibilities or strength to actually formulate it a little bit more dangerous , so we can release the forces of very many children , and invite them to bring their special and valuable skills to society .
anthropolgen has found that we have always challenged people from the members of our society to be useful and to contribute .
there &apos;s evidence that the neanderthals , 60,000 years ago , older people and people with severe physical injuries , and that might have happened because the life experience in the survival of these people was valuable for society .
they didn &apos;t think of these as broken and useless ; they were treated as something special and valuable .
the secret to happiness -- that &apos;s what you &apos;ve all come from -- the secret to happiness is low expectations .
a few years ago , i went to the city where i had grown up to a food market in that red zone in the northeast of pennsylvania , and i was standing there in front of a shadow of tomatoes .
it was summer , and i had shorts .
and i hear a guy behind me saying , &quot; well , if that &apos;s not aimee mullins . &quot;
and i turn around and i see this older man . i had no idea who he is .
and i said , &quot; excuse me , sir , we know each other ? i can &apos;t remember you . &quot;
and he said , &quot; well , you could barely remember me .
when i first saw her , i took her out of her mother &apos;s belly . &quot;
oh , so that one .
and of course , it made a click .
this was dr. kean , a man i knew only from narratives of my mother that day , because , of course , i was too late on my birthday two weeks .
i want to say -- a short autobiographical moment -- that i &apos;m married to a woman , and she &apos;s really wonderful .
my mother &apos;s medical doctor was on vacation , and so my parents didn &apos;t know the man who brought me to the world at all .
and because i was born without my legs , and my feet had been displayed after them , and i only had a few toes on this and a few toes on the other foot , he was the superconductor , this stranger had to get the bad news over .
he said to me , &quot; i had to tell your parents that you would never walk , and never be as moving as other kids , or that you could never live an independent life , and since then they just punished me . &quot;
and what i found really extraordinary was that he collected newspaper clips of my entire childhood , whether i &apos;d won a spell competition in the second grade , whether i was on the half-train with the puppets at the parade , whether i had my scholarship or one of my athletic victories , and he used these clips to teach his students , medical students from the hahneman medical school and the hershey medical school .
and he called this part of his class the x factor , the potential of the human will .
you can &apos;t just emphasize how critical this factor can be for the quality of life of a human being .
and dr. kean kept saying , he said , &quot; i &apos;ve learned that kids , if they don &apos;t get anything else all the time , and even if they get a little bit of support , if you leave kids to themselves , then kids can achieve a lot . &quot;
you see , dr. kean changed his thinking .
he had understood that the medical diagnosis , and how someone deals with it , is two different things .
and i also changed my thinking over time , if you had asked me at the age of 15 , if i had traded my prosthetics for legs of meat and bones , i wouldn &apos;t have hesitated for a second .
i couldn &apos;t have done it better . i didn &apos;t let myself down .
i really wanted to be normal at the time .
if you ask me that today , i &apos;m not so sure .
and that &apos;s what happened because i &apos;ve experienced something with my legs and not despite these experiences .
and maybe this change could also happen , because i &apos;ve encountered so many people who have opened doors to me , rather than meeting people who wanted to constrain me or overcome an idea .
you see , it really only takes one person to demonstrate to you how to manifest their forces , and they &apos;re through .
if you allow someone to activate their own internal forces -- the human mind is so receptive -- if you can do that , and open a door for somebody in a critical moment , you &apos;re a very good teacher for those people .
they teach them to open doors to themselves .
the actual meaning of the word educate is rooted in the word &quot; educe . &quot;
it means creating something that is in one thing to tickle out the potential .
again , what kind of potential do we want to call back up ?
but leaving is not always such a bad thing .
in the &apos; 60s , a case study was done in the u.k. , and at the time , gymnasia was transformed into all schools .
they call this &quot; streaming trials &quot; in the united states , we call it &quot; tracking . &quot;
or , one of the most fascinating tribes i &apos;ve ever lived with , the waorani in the northeast of ecuador , an amazing people who was first contacted in 1958 .
students are divided by grades .
and the a students get more severely examined , get the better teachers and so on .
they then , over a three-month period of time , gave students a &quot; sufficient &quot; the note very good , &quot; they were told that they were very smart , and after these three months , they really wrote one more .
and of course , it breaks you to hear the heart , that in reverse , the one-siders were told that they were only sufficient .
and that &apos;s what it was like after the three months .
but only those who were still in school -- aside from the students who had thrown the school .
and what was really important about this study was that the teachers were not inferred .
the teachers didn &apos;t know that something was changed .
finally , a consequence of buying a bad sitting jean if there &apos;s only one way to buy it is that if you &apos;re unhappy , and you wonder why , who &apos;s responsible , the answer is clear . the world is responsible . what could you have done ?
they were just told that the one-size-fits-all students , and they &apos;re the students with the note enough , and so they &apos;ve taught them something and treated them as well .
the only real disability is a broken mind that has been broken has no longer hope . it doesn &apos;t find anything beautiful . it lacks our natural , childhood curiosity , and our innate ability of imagination .
but if we can continue to support the human mind to continue to hope for ourselves and other people around us to be beautiful , curious and imaginative , then we really put our forces in a positive way .
if a mind has these qualities , we can create a new reality and new form of being .
i want to end with a poem written by a persian poet named hafiz in the 14th century , and my friend jacques dembois told me about . and the poem is called &quot; the god who only knows four words . &quot; every child knows god , not the god of the name , not the god of the commandments , but the god who only knows four words and repeats them all the time , he always says , &quot; come on , dance with me . &quot;
come on , dance with me . thank you .
how would you want to be better than you are right now ?
suppose , through a few changes in your genes , i said that i could have a better memory -- more precise , more precise and faster .
or do you want to be more fitter , stronger , more power .
do you want to become more attractive and more confident ?
if hundreds of different kinds of jeans are available , and they buy one that &apos;s disappointing , and they ask why , who &apos;s responsible ?
what would it be like to live longer in good health ?
or maybe they &apos;re one of those who has always been looking for more creativity .
which one would you like the most ?
which one would you like to have if you could only have one ?
creativity .
how many people would choose creativity ?
raise your hands . let me see .
a couple . probably about as many as there are creative people here .
that &apos;s very good .
how many would choose to have a good memory ?
it &apos;s just as clear that the answer to the question : it .
a few more .
what about fitness ?
a few less .
what about longevity ?
ah , the majority . i like to think of that as a doctor .
if you could only have one of them , it would be a very different world .
is this all just education ?
or is it possible ?
evolution has been a continuous subject here at the ted conference , but today i want to give you the view of a doctor .
the great geneticist in the 20th century , t.g. dobzhansky , who was also a communicator in the russian orthodox church , once wrote a paper called &quot; nothing in biology makes no sense except in the light of evolution . &quot;
they could have done better .
now , if you &apos;re one of those who doesn &apos;t accept the evidence of biological evolution , this would be a very good time to turn your hearing switch off , take your personal communications device -- i &apos;ll give you permission -- and maybe you can look at kathryn schultz &apos;s book , which is about being wrong , because nothing in the course of this talk will make any sense for you .
but if you accept biological evolution , consider this : is it just about the past , or is it also about the future ?
is it money for others , or is it affecting us ?
this is another view of the tree of life .
in this picture , i &apos;ve put a bush as a center of despair in all directions , because if you look at the edges of the tree of life , all the existing specials on the tips of these branches have had evolutionary success : they have survived ; it has demonstrated fitness and strength in its environment .
the human part of this book , far at the end , of course , is what we &apos;re most interested in .
we branch from a common ancestor to modern chimpanzees about six or eight million years ago .
in that time period , there were maybe 20 or 25 different specialities of hominids .
some of them have come and gone .
we &apos;ve been here for about 130,000 years .
with 100 different kinds of jeans in the window , there &apos;s no excuse for mistakes .
it seems that we &apos;re quite remote from the other parts of the tree of life , but in fact , for most part , the fundamental mechanisms of our cells are quite the same .
do you realize that we can use this , and we can use the mechanisms of a common bacterium to produce the protein of the human insulin , which is used to treat diabetics ?
this is not like humaninsulin ; this is the same protein that &apos;s chemically undifferentiated from what comes out of the pancreas .
and as we &apos;re talking about bacteria , do you realize that every one of us in our gut is leading more bacteria than it &apos;s leading cells in the rest of our body ?
maybe 10 times as many .
i mean , do you think when antonio damasio asks for your self-image , do you think about the bacteria ?
our gut is a wonderfully hospitable environment for these bacteria .
it &apos;s warm , it &apos;s dark , it &apos;s moist , it &apos;s very comfortable .
and you &apos;re going to offer them all the nutrients they want without any effort on their own .
it &apos;s really a lightweight way for bacteria , with occasional interruptions of the unintended , jeodch forced to go out .
and so when people make decisions , and even though the results of the decisions are good , they feel disappointed , they accuse themselves .
but otherwise , they &apos;re a wonderful environment for these bacteria , just like they &apos;re important for their lives .
they help digestion of essential nutrients , and they protect them against certain diseases .
but what &apos;s going to happen in the future ?
are we in a kind of evolutionary balance in a form of a species ?
or are we certainly something else -- something that might even be better adapted to the environment ?
now , let &apos;s take a step back to the time of the big bang 14 billion years ago -- the earth , the solar system , about four and a half billion years ago -- the first signs of living things , maybe three to four billion years ago on earth -- the first multi-cellular organisms , maybe so much as 800 or a billion years ago -- and then the human species , which is ultimately shaped in the last 130,000 years .
in this vast unfinished symphony of the universe , life on earth is just briefly measured ; the animal kingdom , like a single keyboard ; and human life , a small emergency .
that &apos;s what we were .
this also represents the entertainment value of this talk , so i hope you &apos;ve enjoyed it .
now , when i was a mess at college , i had my first biology classes .
clinical depression exploded in the industrial world in the last generation .
i was fascinated by the elegance and beauty of biology .
i fell in love with the power of evolution , and i realized something very fundamental : most of the existence of life in individual organisms , each cell , and all the genetic information of the cell is carried on in both dead cells .
but at the time that multi-cellular organisms appeared , things began to change .
sexual reproduction comes into the picture .
and most importantly , with the introduction of sexual reproduction that the genome continues , the rest of the body becomes destructive .
in fact , you could say that the inevitability of the death of our body occurs in evolution at the same moment as sexual reproduction .
now i have to say , when i was a college student , i thought , okay , sex / death , sex / death , death for sex -- it seemed pretty reasonable at the time , but with every year , it came to my increasingly doubt .
i came to understand the feelings of george burns who introduced his show in las vegas in the &apos; 90s .
and one night , there &apos;s a knob on his hotel door .
he opens the door .
i think a significant -- not the only , but a significant contributor to this explosion of depression , and also suicide , is that people have experienced the disappointment because their standards are so high , and then if they have to explain these experiences themselves , they think it would be their fault .
in front of him , there &apos;s a beautiful splendid showgirl .
she looks at him and says , &quot; i &apos;m here for super-sex . &quot;
&quot; that &apos;s wonderful , &quot; says george , &quot; i &apos;m going to take the soup . &quot;
i came to the realization that i was working with a goal that was different from the goal of evolution -- not necessarily contradictory , just different .
i tried to preserve the body .
i wanted to keep us healthy .
i wanted to restore health after disease .
i wanted us to live a long and healthy life .
evolution is all about the passing of the genome to the next generation , adaptation and survival generation after generation .
from an evolutionary standpoint , you and i , like boster rockets , are designed to send the genetic questioning to the next stage of the orbit , and then fall into the sea .
and so the visual result is that we are generally better , objective , and we feel worse .
i think we would all understand the mood that woody allen expressed when he said , &quot; i don &apos;t want to get immortality through my work .
i want to do it by not dying . &quot;
evolution doesn &apos;t necessarily mean to prefer the longest life .
it doesn &apos;t necessarily prioritize the biggest , the strongest or the fastest , and not even the smartest .
evolution prioritizes the creatures that are best adapted to their environment .
it &apos;s just the test of survival and success .
on the bottom of the ocean , there are bacteria that are thermophil , and in doing so , the hot vapor will survive otherwise , if fish were there , it would be vacuum cook fish , but they &apos;ve managed to make a habitable environment for themselves .
so , what does that mean when we look back at what happens in evolution , and how we think about the place of people in evolution , and particularly how we look forward into the next phase , i would say that there are a number of possibilities .
the first is that we &apos;re not going to move forward .
we &apos;ve reached a kind of balance .
so let me remind you .
and the reason for this is that , first of all , through medicine , we succeeded in getting a lot of genes that would have otherwise been selected and had been removed from the population .
and secondly , we as a species have configured our environment to be able to adapt to us exactly as we adapt to them .
and by the way , we &apos;re wandering and circulating and mixing so much that they can &apos;t say that isolation is necessary for evolution to find status .
a second possibility is that it will be an evolution of the traditional species , of course , imposed by the forces of nature .
and the argument here is that the wheels of evolution are slowly grinding , but they &apos;re inexhaustible .
and as far as isolation goes when we colonize planets as a species away , there will be insulation and the changes in the environment that might naturally produce evolution .
in 1957 , five missionary contacts tried to record and made a severe mistake .
but there &apos;s a third possibility , a devastating , fascinating and terrifying possibility .
i call it neo-evolution -- the new development that isn &apos;t just natural , but led and decided that we were an individual in the decisions that we make .
now , how could this happen ?
how could we be able to do this ?
this is the official dogma that we all think is right is completely wrong . it &apos;s not true .
let &apos;s start by looking at the reality that in some cultures people are making decisions about their offspring .
they are , in some cultures , the choice to have more men than women .
it &apos;s not necessarily good for society , but it &apos;s what the individual and the family decide .
so think , if it wasn &apos;t just possible to choose the gender of your child , but also to take genetic adaptations on your body , cure and prevent the disease .
what if you could make the genetic changes to eliminate diabetes or alzheimer &apos;s disease or reduce the risk of cancer or stroke ?
wouldn &apos;t you want to make these changes in your genes ?
if we look ahead , these kinds of changes will be increasingly possible .
the human genome project started in 1990 , and it took 13 years .
it cost 2.7 billion dollars .
the following year , when it was done in 2004 , they could do the same thing for 20 million dollars in the drone to four months .
there &apos;s no question that &apos;s a little bit better than none , but it doesn &apos;t follow that more choice is better than something choice .
today , you can complete a sequence of the three billion base pairs of the human genome at a price of about 20,000 and in the space of about a week .
it won &apos;t take long for the reality to be that there will be the 1,000 dollars of human genome , and it will be increasingly available for everybody .
a week ago , the national academy of engineering gave the draper prize for francis arnold and willem stemmer , two scientists who independently developed techniques that encourage evolution to work faster and lead to desirable proteins in a more efficient way -- called frances arnold &quot; direct evolution . &quot;
a few years ago , the laser price was awarded to the scientist shinya yamanaka for his research where he took an adult skin cell , a fibroblaste , and through the manipulation of just four genes that induced cell to return it to a pluripotent stem cell -- a cell is potentially able to become any cell in your body .
these changes are coming .
the same technology that the human insulin can make in bacteria can make viruses that can not only protect themselves , but also serve immunity against other viruses .
whether you believe it or not , it &apos;s an experimental study in gang with vaccine versus influenza that &apos;s been grown in the cells of a tobacco plant .
can you imagine something good that comes from tobacco ?
this is all reality today , and in the future , it will be much more possible .
so imagine just two other small changes .
there &apos;s a magical amount . i don &apos;t know what it is .
you can change the cells in your body , but what if you could change the cells of your descendants ?
what if you could change the sperm and the eggs or the fresh fertilized egg to give your kids a better chance for a healthier life -- elimination of diabetes , remove the hemophiles , reduce the risk of cancer ?
who doesn &apos;t want healthier children ?
and then the analytical technology , the same engine of science that can enable the changes to prevent disease , could also enable us to adopt super-attributes , hyper-capacity -- better memory .
why don &apos;t we have the capability of a ken jennings , especially if you can expand it with the next generation of the watson machine ?
why not have the fast muscle fibers that will allow you to run faster and longer ?
why not live longer ?
these will be irresistible .
and if we &apos;re at a place where we can pass it on to the next generation , and we can adopt the attributes that we want , we will be transformed by alt style evolution to neo-evolution .
we &apos;re going to have a process that is usually going to take 100,000 years , and we can compress it to a thousand years -- and maybe even in the next 100 years .
i &apos;m pretty sure that we &apos;ve been missing this point for a long time with choice improving our common good .
these are decisions that your grandchildren , or your grandchildren , have to deal with .
do we use these decisions to shape a society that &apos;s better , that &apos;s more successful , that &apos;s more friendly ?
or are we going to selectively choose different attributes that we want to have for some of us and not for other of us ?
are we going to form a society that is more diverse and uniform , or more robust and multilateral ?
these are the kinds of questions we &apos;re going to have to face .
and the deepest of all , are we ever going to be able to develop the wisdom and master the wisdom we &apos;re going to need to make these decisions wise ?
for good or for evil , and early on , you might think , these decisions are going to be about us .
thank you .
i want you to imagine now , a portable robot that gives you superhuman ability , or another robot that helps to stand up and go back .
we call these robots exoskeletons at berkeley bionics .
now , as a paradigm -- i &apos;m almost done -- as a set of questions , the thing about thinking is , what makes all this choice possible in the industrialized societies is wealth .
they &apos;re nothing but something that you put in the morning and gives them extra strength and that will continue to increase their speed and that will help them keep their balance , for example .
this is actually the real melting of human and machine .
but not only that -- they merge and connect with the universe and other devices out there .
it &apos;s not just a crazy idea .
now , to show you what we &apos;re working on , we &apos;re starting to talk about the american soldier , who , on average , carries about 100 pounds on his back , and it &apos;s the request that they should wear more equipment .
of course , this leads to some major complications -- spinal injuries , 30 percent of them -- chronic spinal injury .
so we thought we would take this challenge and create an exoskeleton that would help deal with this problem .
so let me introduce you to hulc -- or the human universal load carrier .
soldier : with the hulc exoskeleton , i can carry 200 pounds across different terrain for many hours .
his flexible design allows you to go deep , to crawl and do highly agile movements .
there are a lot of places in the world , and we &apos;ve heard about a lot of them whose problem is not too big a choice .
it feels what i want to do , where i want to go , and then increase my strength and resilience .
we are so far to imagine this device with our industrial partner , this new exoskeleton that year .
so it &apos;s true .
so let &apos;s take a look at the wheelchair drivers , something that i &apos;m particularly passionate about .
there are 68 million people who are in the wheelchair globally estimated .
that &apos;s about one percent of the population .
and that &apos;s actually a conservative estimate .
we &apos;re talking a lot about very young people with spinal cord injury , who have been hit in the flowering time of their lives -- 20s , 30s , 40s -- the fate hit , and the wheelchair is the only option .
but it &apos;s also about the aging population , the number multiplied .
and pretty much the only option -- when it comes to a stroke , or to other complications -- is the wheelchair .
your problem is that you have too little .
and so , by the way , it &apos;s been 500 years since , as i say , it &apos;s been very successful .
so we thought we could start writing a whole new chapter in mobility .
so let me introduce you to elegs , which is carried by amanda boxtel 19 years ago , which suffered spinal cord injury , which has come to the conclusion that she could no longer walk for 19 years and so far .
thank you .
as i said , amanda carries our elegs .
it has sensors .
his completely non-invasive sensors in the crutches that send signals back to our onboard computer , which is attached here on your back .
here are also batteries , the motor engine is on your hips , just like your knee joints , moving them forward in this pretty smooth and very natural gait .
i was 24 years old , and in the best form , when a monstrous purple tree was paralyzing me as a ski ride .
in a fraction of a second , i lost every feeling and every movement underneath my basin .
so the things i &apos;m talking about are a strange problem of modern , rich , western societies .
not long after that , a doctor walked into my hospital room , and he said , &quot; amanda , you will never be able to go again . &quot;
and that was 19 years ago .
he steal every five custom hopes from my consciousness .
adaptive technologies have made it possible for me to learn how to ski again , climb and even ride with your hands .
but nothing was invented that would let me go back , so far .
thank you .
as you can see , we have the technology , we have the platforms to meet and to discuss with them .
it &apos;s in our hands , and we have all the potential here to change the life of future generations -- not just for the soldiers , or for amanda here and all the wheelchair drivers , but for everyone .
thank you .
at home in new york , i &apos;m the head of the development department of a nonprofit organization called robin hood .
and what &apos;s so frustrating and annoying is , steve levitt told you yesterday about how these expensive and hard to install car seats . it &apos;s a waste of money .
if i don &apos;t fight poverty , i fight , as a fireman , in a volunteer trigger , the fire .
well , in our city , in which volunteers supported a high-skill professional fire department , you have to be in the field very early to be able to mix .
i remember my first fire .
i was the second volunteer in the field , so i had a pretty good chance of being able to get into it .
but it was still a race against the other volunteers to reach the chief man and figure out what our jobs would be .
when i found the main man , he had a very serious conversation with the owner of the house , which certainly had one of the worst days of her life .
it was in the middle of the night , and she was standing in the sleeping train and barefoot under a screen out in the rains , while her house was standing in flames .
the other volunteer who had just arrived before me -- let &apos;s call him lex luther -- reached the main man first and was asked to go into the house and save the dog of the owner &apos;s own dog .
the dog ! i was linguistic .
there was a lawyer or a wealth manager who could now tell people for the rest of his life that he went to a burning house to save a living thing , just because he was five seconds faster than me .
what i &apos;m telling you is that these expensive , complicated decisions -- it &apos;s not easy to help them .
well , i was the next .
the main man was waving me up .
he said , &quot; bezos , you have to go to the house .
you &apos;ve got to go up , pass by the fire , and you &apos;ve got to get some shoes on this woman . &quot;
i swear it .
they threw shiny photos from the air , which we would consider a friendly gesture , and they forgot that these people from the rainforest in their lives had never seen anything two-dimensional .
now , not exactly what i had hoped for , but i went -- the stairs up , down the hallway , past the &quot; real &quot; firemen , who , at that point , were already quite ready to delete into the bedroom to get a few shoes .
i know what you &apos;re thinking now , but i &apos;m not a hero .
i wore my prey back down , where on the front door i met my enemy and the beloved dog .
we carried our estimates out to the owner of the house , where , not surprisingly , he got a lot more attention than mine .
a few weeks later , the fire guard got a letter from the owner of the house , thanking himself for the brave use of rescuing her house .
they even hurt .
one about all the reasonably estimated kindness : somebody had actually brought her a few shoes .
both in my profession at robin hood and in my side profession as a volunteer fireman , i &apos;m witnessing generosity and kindness on a large scale , but i also see the actions of the charity and the mut of individuals .
and you know what i learned ?
they &apos;re all important .
so when i look around this room and i see people who have either achieved a remarkable success or are on their way there , i want to offer the following memory : don &apos;t wait .
don &apos;t wait to make a difference in somebody else &apos;s life until they &apos;ve reached their first million .
if you have something to give , now you give it .
serve in a soup kitchen , clean up a park in the neighborhood .
be a mentor .
not every day will give us a chance to save the lives of a human being , but every day we have the opportunity to change one .
they make us feel worse about it .
so go ahead ; save the shoes .
thank you .
bruno guissani : mark , mark , come back .
thank you .
i &apos;m coming back from a community that knows the secret of humanity &apos;s progression .
it &apos;s a place where women are leading the prescription , with sex , saying hello , and the game determines the day -- where fun is a serious issue .
and no , it &apos;s not burning man or san francisco .
ladies and gentlemen , their relativity .
this is the world of wild bonobos in the congo forest .
bonobos are our closest living relatives with chimpanzees .
if something about what enables people in our society to make decisions about the societies in which people have shifted too little choice , not only would life improve people &apos;s lives , but our dignity would be improved .
that means we have a common ancestor , an evolutionary grandmother who lived about six million years ago .
well , chimpanzees are known for their aggressive .
but unfortunately , we &apos;ve emphasized this aspect in the narrative of human evolution .
but bonobos show us the other side of the medal .
as chimpanzees are led by large , scary guys , the bonobo-society is led by empowered females .
they &apos;ve really come up with something , because it leads to a very tolerant society that has not been observed in lethal violence .
but unfortunately , bonobos are the least known among the primates .
they live in the depths of the congolese urbanium forest , and they &apos;re very difficult to observe .
congo is a paradox -- a country of extraordinary biodiversity and beauty , but also the heart of the darkness itself -- the scene of a violent argument that has been ravaging for decades , and it has taken almost as many lives as the first world war .
it doesn &apos;t surprise that this destruction also threatens the survival of bonobos .
economists call this a pareto improvement rate .
meat trade and the decline of the tree causes you to not even fill a stadium with the remained bonobos -- and even there we are not sure to be honest .
and yet , in this country of violence and chaos , you can hear a hidden laugh that the trees are shattered .
who are these relatives ?
we know them as &quot; love instead of war &quot; monkeys , because they have a lot of times , including bisexual sex , with changing partners , and rules like this , conflict and social issues .
i &apos;m not saying that that would be the answer to all humanitarian problems -- because the life of the bonobos is more than the cama sutra .
bonobos -- like people -- love playing their lives long .
play doesn &apos;t just mean child games .
for us and she , play is fundamental to the attachment of relationships and the care of tolerance .
and we learn trust and the rules of the game .
play is increasing creativity and resilience , and it &apos;s all about generating diversity -- diversity of interactions , diversity of behaviors , diversity of connections .
income distribution will make everybody better -- not just the poor -- because all these big choices plain us .
and when you watch bonobos play , you see the evolutionary origins of human salmon , dance and rituals .
play is the tickle that holds us together .
now , i don &apos;t know how they play , but i want to show you some unique footage straight from the wild .
first , a ball game in bonobo-style -- and i don &apos;t think of football .
so here we see a young female and male in a chase game .
look at what it does .
that might be the evolutionary origin : &quot; she grabs it in the eggs . &quot;
only that i think he likes it , right ?
yeah !
so sex games are common , both in bonobos and in humans .
finally , please read this cartoon , and , a sophisticated person , says , &quot; ah ! what does this fish know ?
and this video is really interesting , because it shows -- and this video is really interesting , because it shows the idea wealth with which you bring new elements into play -- like the testicles -- and also how the game both demands trust and promotes -- while it &apos;s simultaneously fun .
but the game is a shape-shifter .
play is a shape-shifter , and it can take many forms , some of which are a little quieter , imaginative , curious -- maybe to rediscover the amazing .
and i want to show you , this is fuku , a young female , and she plays peaceful with water .
i think , just like they do sometimes , we play alone , and we expose boundaries of our inner and outer worlds .
and it &apos;s this playful curiosity that makes us explore and interact , and the unexpected connections that we form are really the nutritional ground of creativity .
this is just a little taste of the insights that bonobos give us into our past and present .
but they also keep a secret to our future , a future in which we need to adapt to increasing challenges , through greater creativity and printing cooperation .
the secret is that the game is the key to these skills .
in other words , play is our adaptation joker .
you don &apos;t know what &apos;s possible in this goldfish glass . &quot;
in order to successfully adapt to an inconvenient world , we have to play .
but are we going to make the best of our play drive ?
play is not silly .
it &apos;s essential .
for bonobos and people equally , life is not made of teeth and claws alone .
just when it doesn &apos;t seem to be at all , maybe it &apos;s the most necessary game .
and so , my primate comrades , let &apos;s embrace this gift of evolution and play together , while we rediscover the creativity of the camera and the wonder .
thank you .
i want you to imagine two pairs , in the middle of 1979 , the very same day , at the very same moment , every baby -- okay .
so two pairs , each baby .
miserable imagination , a short-sighted view of the world -- and that &apos;s the way i first read it .
now , i don &apos;t want you to spend too much time imagining the creation , because if you imagine the creation all the time , you &apos;re not going to listen to me .
imagine that for a moment .
and in this scenario , imagine that in one case , the sperm is wearing a y chomosom that hits the x chromosome of the egg .
and in the other case , the sperm carries an x chromosome that hits the x chromosome of the egg .
both are survivable , both light .
we &apos;ll come back to these people later .
most of my activities , i have two hats .
under a hat , i &apos;m involved in the history of anatomy .
i &apos;m a trained historian , and in this case , i study how people were dealing with anatomy -- that is , human bodies , animal bodies -- how they were dealing with body fluids , with body concepts ; how they thought about bodies .
the other hat that i &apos;ve worn in my work is the activist , as a patient lawyer -- or , as i sometimes say , as an impatient lawyer -- of people who are patients of doctors .
but the more i thought about it , the more i came to the view that the fish knows something .
in this case , i &apos;ve been working with people who have body types , who are challenging social norms .
so for example , i &apos;ve been working with people who are siamesian twins , two people in a body .
i worked with dwarf people -- so people who were smaller than usual .
and very often i &apos;ve been working with intersexual people whose gender is atypical -- so people who don &apos;t have the average male or female body types .
and as a general term , we can use the word &quot; intersexuality . &quot;
intersexuality is in many different forms .
i &apos;m just going to give you a few examples of the possible types of sexual variants that are not the male or female standard .
in one case , you might have somebody with an xy chromosome base , and the sry gene of the y chomosoms leaves the protogonads that we all have with fetal stage , all of them grow up to testicles .
and that &apos;s why the testosterone is in the fetal stadium .
but because this individual is missing the receptors to see the testosterone , the body doesn &apos;t respond to the testosterone .
because the truth is , if you break the goldfish glass , so that everything is possible , you don &apos;t have freedom . you have paralysis .
and that &apos;s called androgenic defect .
so a lot of testosterone , but no reaction to that .
as a consequence , the body develops more to the typical female trajectory .
when the child is born , she looks like a girl .
they raised these photographs from the forest floor , tried to see behind the face or the character , found nothing and concluded that these were business cards of the devil and killed the five missionaries with the spear .
she &apos;s a girl . she &apos;s raised as a girl .
but it &apos;s mostly until she reaches puberty and her breasts grow and develop , but she doesn &apos;t get her period until someone comes to the fact that there &apos;s something different here .
and they do some tests , and they find that instead of sticking and uterus , they actually carry testicles and they have a y chromosome .
and it &apos;s important to understand that you could actually think of this person as male , but they &apos;re not really .
women , like men , have something in our bodies called adrenaline glands .
they are in the back of our bodies .
if you break the goldfish glass , so that everything is possible , you reduce the happiness .
and the nearby ones make androgens , which are virifying hormones .
most women , as i do -- i think being a typical woman -- i don &apos;t know my actual chromosome building , but i think i probably have the typical -- most women like me actually talk about androgens .
we produce androgen , and we respond to androgens .
the result is that somebody like me actually has a brain that was exposed to more androgens than a woman who was born with testicles and has an androgenic defect .
so gender is really complicated ; intersexual is not just in the middle of the spectrum of gender -- in a sense , you can be spread across the bandwidth .
another example : a few years ago , i got the call from a 19 year-old man who was born a boy , had a friend , had sex with his girlfriend , lived as a man , and he had just figured out that he had ovaries and had a uterus .
he had an extreme form of an innate side cattle hyperbubble .
he has xx chromosome , and in the womb , his side kidneys were so active that they basically created a male hormone environment .
and as a consequence , his genitals were male , his brain was exposed to the more typical male part of the hormone spectrum .
and when he was born , he looked like a boy -- no one knew anything .
they increase paralysis and reduce happiness .
and only when he was 19 years old did he get enough medical problems , actually , because he was inherently menstruing that the doctors found out that he was female inside .
okay , just a quick example of a variation of intersexuality .
some people with xx chromosomes are developing something called ovotestis , which is covering the ovarian tissue of high density .
we don &apos;t know exactly why this is happening .
so gender can occur in many different varieties .
the reason why kids with this kind of body -- whether it &apos;s dwarf or siamesian twins , whether it &apos;s intersexually -- surgeons are often adapted to the norm is not because it would be advantageous for their physical health .
in many cases , these people are completely healthy .
the reason why they often do different kinds of surgical interventions is because they threaten our social categories .
typically , our system is based on the idea that there is a certain anatomical leap with a particular identity .
so we have the concept that being a woman means having a female identity ; being a black person means , supposedly , having an african anatomy in terms of your own story .
everybody needs a goldfish glass .
so we have this terribly simplistic idea .
and when we &apos;re faced with a body that actually represents something very different for us , it confuses us in terms of these categorizations .
so we have a lot of romantic ideas about individualism in our culture .
and our nation is really based on a very romantic concept of individualism .
now , you can imagine how amazing it is when kids are born , who are two people in a body .
where i had seen most of the excitement recently was the south african runner caster semenya last year , whose gender was challenged by the head of the world cup in berlin .
a lot of journalists called me to ask , &quot; what test are you going to do that tells us if caster semenya is female or male ? &quot;
and i had to explain to the journalists that there is no test .
we now know that gender is complicated enough , that we have to admit that nature doesn &apos;t draw a line between male and female , or between male and intersexual and intersexual ; we are the ones that pretend that line as natural .
so we have this situation where , as our science continues , we have to admit more that these categories that we thought were stable anatomic categories , which made very simple arrangements to create permanent identity categories much less than we thought .
this is almost too limited with complete security -- potentially for the fish , definitely for us .
and that &apos;s not just in terms of gender .
it &apos;s also true in terms of race , which turns out to be much more complicated than our terminology has allowed .
in our views , we got into all sorts of inconvenient areas .
for example , what we &apos;re finding is that we have at least 95 percent of our dna in common with chimpanzees .
what are we going to do with the fact that we &apos;re different from them just from a few nucleotides ?
as we continue to push our science forward , we &apos;re getting more and more into a zone of discomfort , where we have to recognize that the simplistic categories that we probably had are too simple .
we see this in all sorts of areas of human life .
one of the areas in which we see this as the beipiel , in our culture today , in the united states , are the fighting over the beginning and the end of life .
we have difficult conversations about where a body becomes human , so that it has a different right than the fetal life .
we have very difficult conversations today -- maybe not as public as in medicine -- about the question of when someone is dead .
but being a metaphorical goldfish glass is a recipe for misery , and , i guess , disaster .
our ancestors never had that hard to fight with the question of when someone was dead .
you know , you &apos;ve been holding a feather under your nose , and when it moved , you haven &apos;t buried it yet .
if it didn &apos;t move , you &apos;ve buried it .
but today , we are in a situation where we &apos;re going to take people &apos;s vital organs and we &apos;re going to plant them to other people .
and as a result , we catch ourselves in the fight with the really difficult question of when someone is dead , and that brings us into a really difficult situation where we don &apos;t have as simple categories as we used to .
now you might think that the whole collapse of categories would make someone like me really happy .
i &apos;m politically progressive , i defend people with unusual bodies , but i have to admit , it makes me nervous .
to understand that these categories are really much less insecure than we thought made me excited .
and it makes me excited about democracy in terms of considerations .
so to tell you about this tension , i first have to know that i &apos;m a big fan of the founding fathers .
thank you very much .
i know they were racial , i know they were sexists , but they were great .
i think they were so brave and strong , and so radical , in what they did , that i found myself watching the maltzy musical 1776 every few years , and it &apos;s not because of the music that is absolutely forgotten .
it &apos;s because of what happened to the founding fathers in 1776 .
the founding fathers , in my view , were the original anatomic activists , and that &apos;s why .
what they showed back was an anatomical concept , and they replaced it through another that was radically and beautiful , and was 200 years old for us .
as you all remember , our founding fathers rejected the concept of monarchy , and the monarchy was basically based on a very simplistic concept of anatomy .
the rulers of the old world had no concept based on dna , but they had a concept of birth rights .
they had a concept of blue blood .
they thought that people who had political power should have this political power , because of the inherited bloodline from grandfather to son and so on .
the founding fathers returned this idea and replaced it through a new anatomical concept , and this concept said that all people were created equally .
you know , i &apos;ve talked about some of these projects before , about the human genome and what that might mean , and the discovery of new groups of genes .
they niveled the field of play , and they decided that anatomically , the similarities counted , not the differences , and that was very radical .
now they did this in part because they were part of an enlightenment system where two things grew together .
democracy grew in , but at the same time , science grew in .
if you look at the story of the founding fathers , it &apos;s clear that many of them were very interested in science , and they were interested in a concept of a naturalist world .
they went away from explanations of supernatural species , and they returned things like a supernatural concept of power , where the transmission is based on a very vague concept of birthright .
they moved to a naturalist concept .
and if you look at the declaration of independence , for example , they talk about nature and the god of nature .
they &apos;re not talking about god and the nature of god .
they &apos;re talking about the power of nature to tell us who we are .
and as part of that , they gave us a concept that was about anatomical similarities .
in fact , we &apos;re starting from a new point : we &apos;ve digitized biology , and now we &apos;re trying to get from the digital code to a new phase of biology by designing and building new life .
and so they really prepared the future civil rights movement in a wonderful way .
they didn &apos;t think about it that way , but what they did for us was great .
so what happened years after that ?
for example , women who aspired the right to vote , the concept of founding fathers , which says that anatomic common is more important than the anatomical difference , and said , &quot; that we have a uterus and egg sticks is not significant enough that we shouldn &apos;t have the right to vote , the right to full citizenship , the right to ownership , etc . &quot;
and women argued that successfully .
next was the successful civil rights movement , where we saw people like sojourner truth , who spin about it , &quot; am i not a woman ? &quot;
we find men in the marching rows of the civil rights movement saying , &quot; i &apos;m a man . &quot;
again , people of different skin color , occupying anatomical similarities from anatomical differences , again , successful .
we see the same thing with the disability movement .
of course , the problem is that , as we start to look at all the similarities , we have to begin to question why we maintain certain separations .
we &apos;ve always tried to ask meaningful questions .
well , well-being , i want to keep certain separations , anatomically , in our culture .
for example , i don &apos;t want to give a fish the same rights as a human being .
i don &apos;t want to say that we should take away from anatomy .
i don &apos;t want to say that five year-olds should be right to give their informed consent to sex or to marry .
so there are some anatomic separations that make sense to me , and that we should , i think , keep .
but the challenge is to try to figure out which ones are and why we keep them , and whether they make sense .
so let &apos;s go back to these two creatures that have been launched at the beginning of the talk .
we have two creatures , both in the middle of 1979 on the same day .
let &apos;s imagine that one of them , maria , was born three months earlier , so she was born on june 1 , 1980 .
heinrich , on the other hand , is born the birthday minister , so he &apos;s born on march 1 , 1980 .
what is life ? it &apos;s something that i think many biologists have tried to understand and do on different levels .
just because of the fact that maria was born three months before heinrich , she gets all kinds of rights three months before heinrich -- the right to have convenient sex , to choose the right to drink the right .
heinrich has to wait for all this , not because he actually has a different biological age , just because of his birth time .
we find other strange things about what their rights are .
but the waorani didn &apos;t just kill the outsiders with the spear .
heinrich , because you assume he &apos;s male -- although i didn &apos;t tell you he &apos;s the xy -- because you assume he &apos;s male , he can now be moved in , which maria doesn &apos;t have to worry about .
maria , in all states , cannot perceive the same right that heinrich has in all states , and that &apos;s the right to marry .
heinrich can marry a woman in every state , but maria can only marry a woman in a few states today .
so we have these permanent anatomic categories that are problematic and questionable in many ways .
and for me , the question is : what are we going to do , because our science is going to make such progress in the field of anatomy , that we &apos;re going to have to admit that a democracy based on anatomy could fall apart ?
i don &apos;t want to give up the science , but at the same time it feels like science does itself .
so where do we go ?
we tried different approaches to simplify it to the minimal components .
it seems that our culture has a kind of pragmatic attitude : &quot; well , we have to draw a line somewhere , so we pull it somewhere . &quot;
but a lot of people get caught in a very strange position .
so for example , texas decided at a point that marrying a man means you don &apos;t have y chromosome , and marrying a woman means you have a y chromosome .
now in practice , people are not tested on their chromosome .
but it &apos;s also very bizarre because of the story i told you about the androgenic defect in the beginning .
if we look at one of the founding fathers of modern democracy , dr. martin luther king , he offers us in his &quot; i have a dream &quot; a kind of solution .
he says that we should not judge people by &quot; their skin color , &quot; but by the quality of their character , &quot; and goes beyond anatomy .
and i want to say , &quot; yes , that sounds like a really good idea . &quot;
but how do you do that in practice ?
how do you judge people because of their characteristics ?
we have digitized almost 20 years , and when we sequenced the human genome , the shift from the analog world of biology to the digital world of computers .
i also want to point out that i &apos;m not sure that we should distribute rights to people like that , because i have to admit that i know a series of golden retriever that probably deserves social benefits more than some people i know .
i want to say that i probably know some light labradordogs that are more capable of making more sophisticated , more intelligent and more mature decisions about their sexual relationships than some 40-year-olds i know .
so how are we going to operate the question of the characteristics of character ?
it turns out it &apos;s really difficult .
and part of me is , what if the contents of a personality were something that would be machine-readable in the future -- could be made visible by the fmri ?
do we really want to go this way ?
i &apos;m not sure where we &apos;re going .
what i know is that it seems really important to think about the idea that the united states is leading to thinking about questions of democracy .
in our effort for democracy , we &apos;ve done our thing really well , and i think we would do our thing in the future .
we don &apos;t have the situation , like for example , in iran , where a man who feels sexually drawn to other men is punished with death , unless he &apos;s ready to go to a sex transformation in which case he can stay alive .
now we &apos;re trying to ask , can we regenerate life , or can we create new life , from this digital universe ?
we don &apos;t exist with these kinds of states .
i &apos;m happy to say that we don &apos;t have these states -- a surgeon that i talked to a few years ago , who had brought some siamesian twins with him to separate them , partly to make a name .
but when i was telephone with him , and i asked him why he was doing these interventions -- they were highly risky surgeries -- his answer was that in his country , these kids would be very poorly treated , and that &apos;s why he had to do it .
i said to him , &quot; well , did you consider political asyl instead of an operation to separate it ? &quot;
the united states offers incredible opportunities to allow people to be who they are , without having to change for the state &apos;s sake .
that &apos;s why i think we need to be leaders .
well , just to conclude , i want to realize that i &apos;ve talked a lot about the fathers .
and i want to think about the ways that democracy could look , or could have looked , if we had more involved the mothers .
and i want to say something that is a bit radical for a feminist , and that is , i think , there might be different kinds of insights that govern different kinds of anatomy , especially when people apply a group thinking .
for years , because i &apos;ve been interested in intersexuality , i &apos;ve also been interested in research in gender difference .
this is a map of a small organism , mycoplasma geitalium , which has the smallest genome of a species that can replicate itself in the lab , and we &apos;ve tried to do this with a smaller genome .
and one of the things that i found really interesting is the difference between men and women in terms of how they think and operate in the world .
we go through initiation rituals .
what we &apos;ve learned from cross-cultural studies is that women , on average -- not each , but on average -- tend to give complex social relationships and care for people who are vulnerable within the group .
and that &apos;s why , when we think about it , we have an interesting situation .
years ago , when i was a graduate student , one of my graduate students who knew my interest in feminism -- i looked at myself as a feminist , doing it -- a really strange question .
he said , &quot; tell me what feminism is female . &quot;
and i thought , &quot; well , that &apos;s the stupidest question i &apos;ve ever heard .
feminism is about solving stereotypes about gender , so feminism is not female .
but the more i thought about his question , the more i thought there could be something female in feminism .
that is to say , there could be something , on average , which is what women &apos;s brains are different from male brains , which makes us more aware of highly complex social relationships , and more careful for the protective needs .
so where the founding fathers were extremely considerable to figure out how individuals could be protected from the state , it &apos;s possible that if we put more mothers into this concept , we would get more of a concept of not just how to protect , but how to care for each other .
we &apos;ve managed to get about a hundred genes from the 500 or something that &apos;s here .
and maybe it &apos;s where we need to go in the future , when we execute democracy over anatomy -- less thinking about the individual body in terms of identity , and thinking more about relationships .
so that if we , as people , try to make a more perfect connection , we think about what we can do for each other .
thank you .
i &apos;m jessi , and this is my suitcase .
but before i show you what i have in it , i &apos;m going to do a very public confession , and that &apos;s : i &apos;m obsessed with outfits .
i love to find , at every opportunity , a different colorful , crazy outfit , and to wear , and to photograph and to blog in the last time .
but i don &apos;t buy anything new .
i get all my clothes from the second hand in flowing markets and in second-hand shops .
ooh , thank you .
second-hand shopping allows me to reduce the impact of my garderobe on the environment and also the money market that i have .
but if we look at this metabolic map , which is very simple , compared to ours . trust me , that &apos;s simple . but if we look at all these genes that we can eliminate one after the other , it &apos;s very unlikely that this would lead to a living cell .
i meet all kinds of great people ; my dollars usually serve for a good cause ; i look pretty unique ; and it &apos;s shopping for my very personal quest .
i mean , what am i going to find today ?
will it be my size ?
am i going to like the color ?
will it cost less than 20 dollars ?
when all the answers are yes , i feel like i &apos;ve won .
i come back to my suitcase , and i &apos;ll tell you what i &apos;ve packed here for this exciting week at ted .
i mean , what does someone bring with so many outfits ?
so i &apos;m going to show you exactly what i brought with me .
i brought seven underpants , and that &apos;s all .
so we decided that the only way forward is to actually synthesize this chromosome , which allows us to variate the individual components and ask some of these fundamental questions .
underpants for exactly one week are all i did in my suitcase .
i &apos;ve bet that i would find everything else that i might want to wear if i came to palm springs first .
and since you haven &apos;t heard of me as the woman running around here at ted in her underwear -- that means i &apos;ve found a few things .
and i really want to show you my outfits this week .
does that sound good ?
as i do that , i &apos;m also going to give you some of the lessons that i &apos;ve learned , believe it or not , from these adventures , not to wear anything new .
let &apos;s start with sunday .
i call that the bright tiger .
you don &apos;t have to spend a lot of money looking great .
you can almost always look great for less than 50 dollars .
and so we started with the question , can we synthesize a chromosome ?
this whole outfit , including the jacket , cost me 55 , and it was the most expensive piece that i was wearing all week .
monday : color is something powerful .
it &apos;s almost physiologically impossible to be miserable when you &apos;re wearing light red pants .
if you &apos;re happy , you attract other happy people .
tuesday : adaptation is totally overrated .
i spent a lot of my life trying to be myself and adapt at the same time .
just be who you are .
if you surround yourself with the right people , you &apos;re not only going to understand it , you &apos;re going to appreciate it .
wednesday : embrace your inner child .
sometimes people tell me , i look like i &apos;m playing clothes , or i remember your seven-year-olds .
is it possible for chemistry to make these really big molecules that have never been done before ?
i like to smile and say , &quot; thank you . &quot;
thursday : self-confidence is the key .
if you think you look good at something , it &apos;s almost safe .
and if you think you don &apos;t look good in something , you &apos;re probably right .
i grew up with a mother who taught me the day after day .
but it wasn &apos;t until i turned 30 that i really understood what that means .
and i &apos;m going to summarize that for you briefly .
if you think you &apos;re inside and outside a wonderful person , there &apos;s nothing you can &apos;t wear .
so there &apos;s no excuse for somebody here in this audience .
we should be able to rock everything we want .
and , if we can do that , can we start the chromosome ?
thank you .
friday : a universal truth -- five words : golden pailletes fit to everything .
and finally , saturday : developing a unique , personal style is a great way to tell the world about you without having to say a word .
it was proven to me over and over again when people came to me this week , just because of what i was wearing , and i had great conversations .
they drilled through each other .
obviously , this is not going to fit in my tiny suitcase .
so before i go home to brooklyn , i &apos;m going to donate it all back .
because the lesson that i &apos;m trying to learn myself this week is that it &apos;s okay to let go .
i don &apos;t have to emotionally arrest these things , because right around the corner there will always be another crazy , colorful , radiation outfit waiting for me to have a little bit of love in the heart and search for it .
thank you very much .
thank you .
a chromosome , by the way , is just a piece of chemical material .
good afternoon , everybody together .
i have something here that i want to show you .
think of this as a visual point , as a flying image .
this is what we call perceptual design in our lab .
let me tell you a little bit about this .
now , if you take this picture -- i &apos;m originally italian , and every boy in italy is growing up with this picture in his room , but the reason i &apos;m going to show you this is that something very interesting happened in the formula one in the last few decades .
some time ago , if you wanted to win a formula 1 , you took your budget and you put your money on a good driver and a good car .
and if the car and the driver were good enough , they won the race .
now today , you need , if you want to win a race , in fact , something like this -- something that overwakes the car in real time , has a few thousand sensors that are passing that information from the car , that information to the system , and then processing it , and then using it to send that car back and change things in real time as information is collected .
this is what you would call , in engineering teams , a real-time control system .
our steps in digitizing life were exponential .
and basically , it &apos;s a system made of two parts -- a sensual part and a reacting arrow .
what &apos;s interesting today is the real-time control systems are starting to emerge in our lives .
our cities have been , in the last few years , equipped with networks and electronics .
they become free computers .
and as a computer in the open , they start reacting in a different way , they &apos;re perceived and driven .
when we make cities , it &apos;s actually a big thing .
just by the way , i want to mention that cities are only two percent of the world &apos;s land , but 50 percent of the world &apos;s population is there .
they &apos;re 75 percent of the energy consumption -- up to 80 percent of the co2 emissions .
so if we do something with the cities , that &apos;s a big thing .
beyond the cities , all this perceivation and drive into objects of everyday life .
our ability to write genetic code has been evolving very slowly , but has still increased , and our final point would now be on an exponential curve .
this is from an exhibition that paola antonelli for moma later in the year , during the summer .
it &apos;s called &quot; jump with me . &quot;
well , all of our objects , our environment , are beginning to speak to us back .
in a sense , it &apos;s almost like every atom out there becomes both , a sensor and a driver .
and that radically changes the interaction that we humans have with our environment outside .
in a way , it &apos;s almost like the old dream of michelangelo ...
you know , when michelangelo formed the moses , it means that he took the hammer at the end and threw it on moses -- in fact , you can still see a little spot in the bottom -- and said , &quot; perché non parli ? why don &apos;t you talk ? &quot;
well , today , our environment begins for the first time to respond to us .
i &apos;m just going to show you a few examples -- again , with the idea of perceiving and driving our environment .
let &apos;s start with perceiving this .
we started this 15 years ago .
now the first project i want to show you is actually one of the first of our labs .
it was born four and a half years ago in italy .
and what we did was we actually used a new kind of network that was used all over the world -- that &apos;s a mobile phone network -- and use anonymous and aggregated information from this network that &apos;s being collected from the operator anyway to understand how the city works .
the summer was a happy summer -- 2006 .
it was when italy won the football world cup .
some of you will remember , it was a italy playing against france , and then at the end of zidane , the headrest .
and anyway , italy won at the end .
now look at what happened that day , just watching the activity that happens in the network .
here you see the city .
you see in the middle the colosseum , the tiver .
it actually took several years to start with a bioethical review before we did the first experiments .
in the morning , before the game .
you see the timeline on the top .
early afternoon , people here and there , who are calling and moving .
the game starts -- silence .
france makes a gate . italy makes a gate .
half-time , people make a quick call , go to toilets .
second half . end of normal play time .
first extension , second .
zidane , in a moment of the headrest .
italy wins . yeah .
as it turns out , dna synthesization is very difficult .
well , that night , everybody went to the center to celebrate .
they saw the big impact .
the next day , everyone went to the center to meet the seven-team and the prime minister at the same time .
and then everyone went down .
you see the picture of the place around co massimo , where , since the roman time , people go to celebrate -- to have a big party , and you see the impact at the end of the day .
well , this is just one example of how we feel today about the city in a way that we couldn &apos;t do a few years ago .
so , very quickly , another example of feeling : this is not about people , but about things that we use and consume .
well , today we know all about where our things come from .
this is a map that shows you all the chips that have a mac computer , how they came together .
but we know very little about where things are going .
there are tens of thousands of machines around the world that can make little bits of dna , 30 to 50 letters long , but it &apos;s a degenerative process , so the longer you make a piece , the more errors happen .
so we actually designed some small markers in this project to track the garbage as it goes through the system .
so we started with a few volunteers who helped us , a little over a year ago , in seattle , to mark the things that they threw away -- different kinds of things , as you can see -- things that they would throw away anyway .
then we have the little chips that stick little brands on the garbage and start tracking it .
here are the results that we just got .
from seattle ...
after a week .
with this information , we realized that there are a lot of inefficient things in the system .
we can actually do the same things with less energy .
the data was not available before .
but there &apos;s a lot of unuseful transportation and complicated things happening .
so we had to develop a new way to put these little bits together and correct the errors .
but the other thing is that we believe that when we see every day , the cup we throw away doesn &apos;t just disappear that it &apos;s still somewhere on the planet .
and the plastic bottle that we throw away every day is still there .
and if we were to show that to people , then we can move behavior change forward .
so that &apos;s the reason this project is happening .
my colleague at mit , assaf biderman , could tell you much more about this and the many other wonderful things you can do with perceivation , but i &apos;d like to talk about the second part that we discussed at the beginning , and that &apos;s the emphasis of our environment .
and the first project is something we did a few years ago in zaragoza , spain .
it began with a question of the mayor who came to us and said that spain and southern europe have a beautiful tradition to use water as part of architecture in public places .
and the question was : how could you connect technology , new technology with it ?
and one of the ideas that was taught at mit in a workforce was , imagine these tubes , and valves , magnetic valves , folds that open and close .
they &apos;re doing something like a water curtain with water footprints .
this was our first attempt , starting with digital information , the genome phi x 174 .
if these images fall down , they can write on it , they can display patterns , images , text .
and you can approach him , and he &apos;s going to open up to let them jump through , as you can see in this picture .
well , we introduced the mayor belhole .
he loved it very much .
and we got the mission to design a building in the entrance of the expo .
we called it the digital water pavillion .
the whole building was water .
there are no doors or windows , but if you approach them , it will open up and let them in .
the roof was also covered with water .
and if it &apos;s windy , if you want to reduce the injection , you can even put the roof down .
it &apos;s a little virus that kills bacteria .
or you could close the building , and the whole architecture , like in this case , you know , this day , when you drive down the roof , you get images of people who were there and say , &quot; you &apos;ve destroyed the building . &quot;
no , they didn &apos;t destroy the building , it &apos;s just that architecture almost disappears .
here &apos;s how the building works .
you see the person wondering what &apos;s going on inside .
54 percent of the deaths happened through drilling .
and here you see me when i was trying to test the sensors that opened the water , not to get wet .
well , i should tell you what happened one night when all the sensors stopped working .
but actually , that night , it was even more fun .
all the zaragoza kids came to the building , because the way they played with the building was very different .
no longer a building that would open to let them in , but a building that still had breaks and holes in the water , you had to jump now without getting wet .
and that was , for us , very exciting , because as architects , engineers , as designers , we always think about how the people who use the things we design .
we made little pieces , we made a error correction , and we had a dna molecule of about 5,000 letters .
but reality is always unpredictable .
and that &apos;s the beauty of creating things that are being used and interacting with people .
so here &apos;s a picture of the building with the physical imagery , the water and the projections on it .
and this is what made us think about the following project that i &apos;m going to show you now .
imagine if these images could really start to fly .
imagine if you could have little helicopters flying through the air , and each one of you with a little image with changing light -- almost like a cloud that can move through the room .
here &apos;s the video .
imagine a helicopter , like the one you saw before , moving with others , completely synchronized .
you can have this cloud .
you can have a kind of flexible screen or display , like this -- a smooth formation in two dimensions .
the exciting phase came when we took this piece of chemical and put it into a bacterium , and the bacteria started reading the genetic code and made viral particles .
or unregularly , in three dimensions , where what changes is the light , is not the position of the images .
they can play with different kinds of things .
imagine if the screen could just appear in different formats or sizes , in different resolution .
but then the whole thing could be just a 3d cloud of images that you can go to and move through , that you can look at from many , many directions .
here you see a real flyfire-controlling that &apos;s coming down to form a smooth like we used to do before .
when you turn on the light , it looks like this . so , just like we saw before .
imagine that every single person is being controlled by people .
it could have a pulse that comes from people , from the movements of the people or the like .
i want to show you a little bit about the first thing .
we &apos;ve been working with roberto bolle , one of the best ballet dancers of our time -- the étoile at the metropolitan theater in new york and the scale in milan -- we &apos;ve taken his movements in 3d to use them as the impulse for the flyfire .
the viral particles were then released from the cells and came back and killed e. coli .
here you see roberto dancing .
on the left-hand side , you see the images , the different inputs .
it &apos;s simultaneously a real-time 3d scan and a motion shot .
so that you can understand the whole movement .
you can do this all the time .
but then once we have all the images , you can play with it and play with color motion and motion .
we want to use that as a possible impulse for the flyfire .
i want to show you the latest project we &apos;re working on .
it &apos;s something we &apos;re working on for the olympics in london .
it &apos;s called the cloud -- the cloud .
i was talking to the oil industry recently , and they said they were doing this model exactly .
the idea is , again , imagine that we &apos;re going to involve people to do something and to change the environment -- almost like what we call a cloud movement , how to move a scheme , but with a cloud .
imagine that anyone can give a little donation to a picture point .
i think that the remarkable thing that has happened over the last few years , the last decade , is that we &apos;ve moved from a physical to a digital world .
this has digitized , knowledge , and makes it available through the internet .
today , for the first time -- and the campaign of obamas has shown this -- we can move from the digital world , from the self-organizing forces of the networks to the physical world .
this can be , in our case , that we use it to design and create a symbol .
that means something that &apos;s built in the city .
but tomorrow , to face the challenges that are coming -- think about climate change or co2 emissions -- how can we change from the digital world to the physical .
so the idea is that we &apos;re actually engaging the people in which they &apos;re together , collectively doing things .
the cloud is again a cloud of images , in the same way that a real cloud is a cloud of particles .
they laughed more than you do here .
and these particles are water , while our cloud is a cloud of images .
it &apos;s a physical form in london , but covered with images .
you can move inside and make different kinds of experiences .
you can actually look at it from the bottom , share the most important moments for olympia in 2012 and beyond , and use it as a kind of connection to the community .
so both the physical cloud in the sky and something at the top , you can go to the top , like london &apos;s new mountain summit .
you can go in .
and a kind of digital light tower at night -- but most important , a new kind of experience for anyone who wants to go to the top .
thank you .
as an artist , i &apos;m very important about context .
through my work , i &apos;m trying to express that humans are not separate from nature , and that everything is connected .
so we think that this is a situation in which software can actually build its own hardware in a biological system .
the first time i was in antarctica almost 10 years ago , where i saw my first iceberg .
i was struck by awe .
my heart was raging , i was dizzy while i was trying to grab what was in front of me .
the iceberg around me was racing about 60 meters out of the water , and i could only marvel that this was a snowflake on another snowflake , year after year .
ice mountains are born as the calf of a glacier , or by breaking out of ice cups .
every iceberg has its own individual personality .
they interact in a clear way with their environment and their experience .
some people refuse to give up and cling to the bitter end , while others don &apos;t stop and collapse dramatic passion in a seizure .
if you look at an iceberg , it &apos;s easy to think that they &apos;re isolated , separated , and just as we humans often see each other .
but the truth is far from that .
but we wanted to go even further . we wanted to build a whole bacterial chromosome , and it has more than 580,000 letters of genetic code , so we thought , we &apos;re going to build it in cassets of the size of the virus that we could vary the size of the cassets to understand what the individual components of a living cell are .
while an iceberg melts , i breathe its temporary atmosphere .
as the iceberg melts , it releases mineral drinking water that feeds many forms of life .
i pretend , in my footage of these iceberg , i &apos;m going to make portraits of my ancestors , in the sense that they exist in these individual moments , and will never exist again .
it &apos;s not a death when they melt ; it &apos;s not an end , it &apos;s a continuation of their path along the life cycle .
part of the ice in the iceberg that i photograph is very young -- a few thousand years old .
and part of the ice is more than 100,000 years old .
the last pictures i &apos;d like to show you are an iceberg that i photographed in kekertsuatsiak in greenland .
very rarely , you &apos;re actually witnessing a rolling iceberg .
here you see it now .
on the left , you see a little boat .
design is the key , and if you want to start with digital information in the computer , this digital information really has to be flawed .
that &apos;s about five meters long .
please look at the shape of the iceberg and where it is on the waterline .
you can see here , he &apos;s starting to roll , and the boat has moved to the other side , the man is standing there .
this is the average size of a greenland iceberg .
it &apos;s about 120 feet out of the water , or 40 meters .
and this video is real time .
and just like that , the iceberg shows you a different side of its personality .
thank you .
my life is really extraordinarily blessed by working on some amazing projects .
but the coolest thing i &apos;ve ever worked on is this guy .
when we first sequenced the genome in 1995 , the error rate was in a mistake per 10,000 base pairs .
his name is tempted .
tempt was one of the leading graffiti artists in the &apos; 80s .
then one day , he came back from walking and he said , &quot; paps , my legs cribble . &quot;
and that was the outbreak of the als .
mt is now utterly paralyzed .
he can only use his eyes .
i was faced with him .
so i have a company that makes design and animations , so graffiti is inevitably a complex part of what we admire and pay attention to in the art world .
so we decided to support tony -- tempt -- and support his thing .
i met with his father and his brother and said , &quot; we &apos;re going to give you this money .
we found 30 errors in respirating , and if we had used the original sequence , it would never have been possible to go up .
what are you going to do with this ? &quot;
and his brother said , &quot; i just want to talk to tony again .
i just want to go back with him , and i said , &quot; wait a minute , isn &apos;t that -- i &apos;ve seen stephen hawking -- can &apos;t all the paralyzed people communicate through these devices ? &quot;
and he said , &quot; no , it &apos;s only when you hear the higher social layer and you have a remarkable insurance , you can really do that .
we followed the geneaology eight generations , and we found two cases of a natural death , and when we asked people something about it , they admitted that one of the people had gotten so old that he died because of his age , and we still killed him with the spear .
normal people are not available . &quot;
and i said , &quot; how do you communicate ? &quot;
anybody see the movie &quot; butterfly &quot; and the diver bell ? &quot;
that &apos;s how they communicate -- that &apos;s how their fingers walk .
i was like , &quot; very archaic , how can that be ? &quot;
so i came up with the need to just put out a check , and instead i put out a check that i didn &apos;t have the easiest idea of how to solve it .
part of the design is to make pieces that are 50 letters long and that have to overlap with other 50-letter pieces to build smaller sub-units to fit them together .
i committed myself to the place and to his brother and his father -- in the words , &quot; well , my proposal is this : tony &apos;s going to talk , we &apos;re going to get him a device , and we &apos;re going to find a way to get his art back .
because it &apos;s a farce that somebody who &apos;s carrying all that stuff can &apos;t communicate it . &quot;
so i spoke at a conference a few months later .
i met these people from grl , graffiti research lab , and they have a technology that allows them to project a light on any surface , and then draw with a laser pointer on it , which only governs the negative surface .
so they go around and they do art installations like this .
they say that all the things that are shown up there follow a life cycle .
it starts with the sex parts , and then the malignant words come , and then the bush publishing , and finally , people actually do art .
but there was always a life cycle in their presentations .
so i went home and i ate with my wife at night and i told her about everything , and we thought , &quot; well , wait a second , if there &apos;s this technology that allows you to use your eyes to control things , then we should find a way that speed can control a laser , so that he can do graffiti again , that would be great . &quot;
that was the beginning of the journey .
we &apos;ve built unique elements here .
and about two years later , about a year later , after a lot of organization and a lot of things , we &apos;ve done some things .
first of all , we put the insurance in the doors , and actually got a device for speed to communicate with -- a stephen hawking machine .
that was incredible .
and he &apos;s really extremely funny -- i call him yoda , because you &apos;re talking to him , or you &apos;re getting an email , and you &apos;re like , &quot; i &apos;m so unworthy , this guy is incredible . &quot;
we &apos;ve also flown seven programmers from all over the world -- literally from all the corners of the world -- home to us .
my wife , my kids and i have moved to the garage , and these hackers and programmers and conspiracy theorists and anarchists have taken over our house .
many of our friends thought we were pretty stupid to do that , and we came back , and all the images on the walls would have been weighed graffiti .
but for over two weeks , we programmed , we went to the beachade in venice , my kids were brought in , and so did my dog , and we created this .
it &apos;s called eyewriter , and you can see the description .
this is a cheap sunglasses that we bought at the venice beach promenade , a little bit of copper wire , and a few things from the construction market and the electronics trade .
you may have heard that we &apos;ve built watermarks .
we took a ps3 camera , we put it apart , we put it on a led light , and now we have a device that &apos;s free -- you can build it yourself , we provide the code for free , you can download it for free .
so we &apos;ve created a device that is completely free of constraints .
no insurance can get there .
no hospital .
every paralyzed can actually communicate or draw with your eyes alone .
thank you .
thank you very much , that was incredible .
so at the end of the two weeks , we went back to the pace room .
i love this picture , because it &apos;s the room of somebody else , and that &apos;s his room .
now there &apos;s all this rumble in front of the great unveiling .
think about it : we have a four-letter code : a , c , g and t .
and after over a year of planning , two weeks of programming , nudelparties and nights , tony drew for the first time after seven years .
and this is an amazing picture , because this is his life support system , and he looks beyond his life support system .
we &apos;ve been tilting his bed so he can see outside .
we set up a projector against a wall of the parking lot in front of the hospital .
and he drew again for the first time , in both his family and friends -- and you can only imagine what a sense that was in the parking lot .
we also had to break into the parking lot , so we felt right as part of the spray scene .
at the end of the day , he sent us an email with this content : &quot; for the first time in seven years , i &apos;ve drawn something .
i feel like i was pushed underwater , and finally someone attacked down and raised my head so i can breathe . &quot;
isn &apos;t that overwhelming ?
this is something like our fight .
triplets of these letters -- these letters encode about 20 amino acids ; and here &apos;s a single determination for each of these amino acids .
it keeps us at the pole , and it keeps us going .
and we still have to improve a lot of this device .
it &apos;s an amazing device , but it &apos;s a magic billboard right now .
and someone who has such an artistic potential deserves so much more .
so we &apos;re trying to figure out how to make it better , faster and stronger .
since that time , we &apos;ve been given all sorts of recognition .
we &apos;ve won a few prices .
remember , it &apos;s free , none of us deserve for free .
it all comes from our own pockets .
so the awards were , &quot; oh , that &apos;s fantastic . &quot;
so we can use the genetic code to write our words , sentences , thoughts .
armstrong twittered over us , and then , in december , the time-magazine honored us as one of the 50 best inventions in 2010 , which was really great .
the coolest part is -- and this includes the whole circle -- that there will be an exhibition in the interior city of los angeles called the art of the streets .
and i think there will be pretty much the toughest representatives of the street scene -- banksy , shepard fairey , caws -- all these guys will be there .
mt is going to be part of the show , which is pretty decreased .
so basically , what i &apos;m talking about is , if you see something that &apos;s impossible , make it possible .
everything in this room was impossible -- this stage , this computer , this microphone , the eyewriter -- everything was impossible at some point .
make it possible -- all of you here .
i &apos;m not a programmer , and i &apos;ve never had anything to do with augeneric technology , but i just captured something and surrounded myself with amazing people so that we could put something on the legs together .
and this is a question that every one of you should be asking , and every single day you get something that needs to be done . if not now , when ? and if i don &apos;t , who ?
thank you .
initially , we just signed .
so , i write for kids , and i &apos;m probably america &apos;s most promised children &apos;s book author .
and i always tell people that i don &apos;t want to come along like a scientist .
you can have me as a farmer , or in leather , but no one has ever chosen farmers .
today i want to tell you about circles and revelations .
well , an epiphany is usually something that you find because you dropped it somewhere .
you go around the block and you take it as an epiphany .
this is a painting of a circle .
one of my friends did it -- richard bollingbroke .
it &apos;s the kind of complicated circle that i want to tell you about today .
my circle began back in the &apos; 60s at the high school in stow , ohio , where i was the classroom box .
some people were disappointed that it wasn &apos;t poetry .
i was the one who was beaten every week in the virgin toilet green and blue until a teacher saved my life .
she saved my life by letting me use the toilet in the classroom .
that &apos;s what she did secretly .
she did it for three years .
and i had to go out of the city .
i had a thumb , i had 85 dollars , and it hit me to san francisco in california -- i found a lover -- and at the time in the &apos; 80s , i found it important to do a job with aids organizations .
about three or four years ago , i got a call in the middle of the night from this teacher , woman posting , who said , &quot; i have to see you .
i &apos;m sad that we &apos;ve never met each other as adults .
can you please come to ohio , and please come together with the guy i know you &apos;ve found him in the meantime .
and i should mention that i have pancreatic cancer , and i want you to hurry . &quot;
we built the pieces so that we could just break them down with enzymes , and there are enzymes that repair them and repair them .
well , the next day we were in cleveland .
we looked at her , we laughed , we cried , and we knew she had to be in a hospice .
we found one for them , we took them , and we took care of them , and we put eight on their family , because it was necessary .
it was something we knew to do .
and just as the woman who wanted to know me as an adult , she met me , she turned into a box full of ashes and was put in my hands .
what had happened was that the circle had closed , it had become a circle -- and the revelation that i talked about turned out to be .
the revelation is that death is part of life .
she saved my life , and my partner and i saved her .
and , you know , this part of life needs everything that the rest of life needs .
he needs truth and beauty , and i &apos;m so happy that this has been mentioned so many times today .
and we started making pieces , starting with pieces that contain five to seven thousand letters , put them together to make 24,000-letter pieces to put them back together , to 72,000 .
it needs the same -- it needs dignity , love and pleasure , and it &apos;s about us to give these things .
thank you .
imagine a big explosion as you go up to 1,000 meters .
but at the same time , they had a clear knowledge of the forest that was amazing .
imagine an airplane full of smoke .
imagine a power plant , the clack , clack , clack , clack , clack , clack , clack , clack , clack .
that sounds scary .
well , i had a unique place that day ; i was sitting on 1d .
i was the only one who could talk to the airplanes .
so i looked at her in a moment , and they said , &quot; no problem , we probably got some birds . &quot;
the pilot had already turned the machine , and we weren &apos;t that far away .
in every step , we produced these pieces in the surplus so that we could sequence them , because we tried to create a very robust process , which you &apos;re going to see in a minute .
you could see manhattan .
two minutes later , three things happened at the same time .
the pilot ran the machine after the hudson river .
that &apos;s not usually the route .
he turns off the drives .
imagine a noisy airplane .
and then he said three words -- the most emotional words i &apos;ve ever heard .
he says , &quot; preparation for jumping up . &quot;
i didn &apos;t have to talk to the board staff anymore .
i could see it in her eyes , there was a cry , there was life at the end .
we tried to get to the point of automation .
i want to share with you three things that i &apos;ve learned that day about me .
i learned that in a moment everything is different .
we have this plan of life , we have these things that we want to do in life , and i thought of all the people that i wanted to do a hand , and i didn &apos;t do it , all the fences that i wanted to flick , all the experiences i wanted to make , and i never did .
and as i was thinking about it later , i came up with a phrase , which is , &quot; i &apos;m collecting bad wine . &quot;
because if the wine is so far and the person is there , i open it up .
i never want to move anything more in life .
and that urgency , that goal , really changed my life .
the second thing that i learned that day -- and that was when we missed the george washington bridge , pretty much around hair -- i thought , man , there &apos;s one thing that i really regret .
i had a good life .
in my own humanity and with my mistakes , i was trying to get better in everything i was attacking .
so , this looks like a basketball placyoff .
but in my humanity , i also gave my ego space .
and i regretted the time i wasted for meaningless things , with people who mean something .
and i thought about the relationship with my wife , friends , to people .
and after that , when i thought about it , i decided to ban negative energy from my life .
it &apos;s not perfect , but it &apos;s much better .
i didn &apos;t argue with my wife for two years .
it feels great .
i &apos;m not trying to be right anymore ; i &apos;m going to decide to be happy .
the third thing that i learned -- and that is , as the internal clock begins , &quot; 15 , 14 , 13 , counting ... &quot;
you see the water coming .
if we get to these really big pieces -- over 100,000 base pairs -- they &apos;re not just going to grow in e. coli . it &apos;s going to exceed all the possibilities of modern molecular biology . and so we turned to other mechanisms .
i said , &quot; please fly into the air . &quot;
i don &apos;t want this thing to break into 20 parts , as you know from documentaries .
as we fall down , i had this feeling of dying human being is not terrifying .
almost like we prepare for our lives .
but it was very sad .
i didn &apos;t want to go ; i love my life .
and this sadness really formed in a thought , which is that i just wish one thing .
i just wish i could see my kids grow up .
about a month after that , i went to a show of my daughter -- first graders , not a lot of artistic talent ...
... not yet .
we knew about a mechanism called the homologous recombination that biology uses to repair dna that can assemble these pieces .
and i celebrate , i cry like a little kid .
and in the world , everything made sense to me .
i realized at the time , by connecting the dots to each other , that life is just about being a great father .
more than anything , everything else , is my only goal in life to be a good father .
i became part of the miracle , not to die that day .
i got another gift , which is to look into the future and come back and live differently .
my call to all of you who fly today is : imagine the same thing happening on your flight -- please don &apos;t -- but imagine it ; and how would you change ?
what would you do that would push you up because you think you &apos;re there forever ?
how would you change your relationships and the negative energy in it ?
and more than anything , are you the best parents you can be ?
here &apos;s an example of it . there &apos;s an organism called deinococus radiodurans , which is over three million rays of radiation .
thank you .
the idea behind the stuxnet computer worm is pretty straightforward .
we don &apos;t want iran to build the bomb .
the most important post there for developing nuclear weapons is the uranium incentive facility in natance .
the gray boxes that you see here are real-time control systems .
now , if we manage to compromise the systems that control the numbers and the valves , we can actually cause a lot of problems with the centrifuge .
these gray boxes don &apos;t run with windows software ; they &apos;re based on a completely different technology .
but if we manage to have an effective windows-virus on a laptop that &apos;s used by a waiting engineer to configure this gray box , we &apos;re in the business .
and this is the planning behind stuxnet .
so we start with a windows dropper .
you can see in the upper field that his chromosome just falls apart .
the usage data is transferred into the gray box , damaged the centrifuge and the iranian nuclear energy program is delayed -- commission .
this is a child &apos;s game , right ?
i want to tell you how we &apos;ve figured this out .
when we started our research to stuxnet six months ago , it was completely unknown what the meaning and purpose of this construction was .
the only thing that we knew is very , very complicated in terms of the windows part , the droppery part , he was using countless zero-day-flaws .
and it seemed to have something with these gray boxes , these real-time control systems .
this attracted our attention , and we started a lab project where we infected our environment with stuxnet , and looked at this construct .
and then something funny happened .
stuxnet was like a laboratory rat that didn &apos;t like our cheese -- sniffed it , but didn &apos;t want to eat it .
it didn &apos;t make sense in my eyes .
12 to 24 hours later , everything has added up as it was .
and after experimenting with different kinds of cheese , i realized this was a targeted attack .
completely targeted for a particular goal .
the droplet actively strips around the gray box when a specific configuration was discovered , even when the particular program that tries to infect it is on that target .
and if not , it doesn &apos;t do anything at all .
so , this really got my interest , and we started working with it , almost around the clock , because i thought , well , we don &apos;t know what the goal is .
it could be , say , a u.s. power station , or a chemical plant in germany .
so we should soon figure out what the goal is .
so we extracted and decomposed the attack code , and we found that it &apos;s built into two digital warheads -- a smaller one and a bigger one .
and we also noticed that they were very professionally constructed , by people who obviously had all the information in them .
they knew all the bits and bytes they had to attack .
we have thousands of organisms that can do that .
they probably even knew the size of the machine operator .
so they knew everything .
and if you &apos;ve already heard that the dropper of stuxnet is complex and high-tech , let me tell you , the usage data is a science for itself .
it &apos;s much more sophisticated than anything we &apos;ve ever seen .
here you see an excerpt from this attack code .
we &apos;re talking about -- about 15,000 lines of code .
it looks pretty much like old-fashioned assembler language .
and i want to tell you how we were able to get smart from this code .
so what we were looking for first was system-functioning , because we know what they &apos;re doing .
and then we looked for timers and data structures and tried to connect them to the real world -- with potential goals in the real world .
these organisms can be completely dry , they can actually live in the vacuum .
so we needed theories about these goals that we could prove or disprove .
in order to set up these theories , we remember that it &apos;s definitely high-level sabotage , it has to be a high-quality goal , and it &apos;s very likely in iran , because most infections have been reported .
well , in this area , there are not a couple thousand goals .
it basically goes out to the bureau nuclear power plant and the uranium incentive plant in natance .
so i said to my assistant , &quot; bring me a list of all the centrifuge experts and power plants from our client tribe . &quot;
their hunters were able to smell the urine of an animal from 40 steps away , and determine what animal species of this kind belonged to .
and i called her up and tapped her knowledge to compare her expertise to what we found in the code and in the data .
and that worked very well .
so , we were able to connect the little digital warhead to the rotor-control .
the rotor is this moving part within the centrifuge , this black object that you see .
and if you manipulate the speed of this rotor , you &apos;re actually able to crack the rotor , and eventually even explode the centrifuge .
i &apos;m absolutely sure that life can exist and move in space , looking for aquatic conditions .
and what we also found is that the target of the attack was actually to make it happen slowly and uncanny -- obviously in the attempt to get warning engineers to despair , so they wouldn &apos;t be able to get behind it quickly .
the big digital warhead -- we got a glimpse by looking at very precise data and data structures .
so for example , the number 164 is very sticking out of this code ; you can &apos;t overlook it .
i started working through scientific literature about how these centrifuges are built in natance , and found that they &apos;re structured in what we call cascades , and each cascade contains 164 centrifuge .
so that made sense , it fit together .
and it got even better .
these centrifuges in iran are divided into 15 so-called levels .
and guess what we found in the code of attacks ?
an almost identical structure .
so again , the fit was really good together .
in fact , nasa has shown that there &apos;s a lot of it out there .
and this gave us great confidence in the one that we studied here .
well , don &apos;t get me wrong , it didn &apos;t just go like that .
these results have been achieved through several weeks of hard work .
and often we just ran into a dead end , and we had to recollect .
anyway , we found that both digital warheads were actually heading for one and the same goal , but from different directions .
the little warhead takes over a cascade , and turns the rotors over , and slows them down , and the big warhead comes in with six cascades in interaction and manipulate valves .
so , by and large , we &apos;re very confident that we actually have determined what the goal is .
it &apos;s natance , and it &apos;s just natance .
so we don &apos;t have to worry that other goals could be hit by stuxnet .
here &apos;s something really cool that we &apos;ve discovered -- really took me out of the socks .
here &apos;s a feature of the molecule that we made using these processes -- in fact , we just used hef-mechanisms with the right design of the pieces , and then we put them together automatically .
down there is the gray box , and on the top you see the centrifuge .
now , what this thing does is it captures the incoming values of sensors -- so for example , printing sensors and vibration sensors -- and it provides legitimate code that &apos;s still running during the attack , with the wrong data .
and in fact , this miserable data of stuxnet is already recorded .
so it &apos;s just like in hollywood movies , where , during the chase , the monitoring camera is fed with previously recorded video footage .
that &apos;s cool , isn &apos;t it ?
the idea here is obviously not just that the machine operators are overlisting in the control room .
in fact , it &apos;s much more dangerous and aggressive .
the idea is to overcome a digital security system .
we need digital security systems where a human machine operator can &apos;t respond fast enough .
so , for example , in a power station , if the big steam turbine becomes too fast , you have to open up deposit valves within a millisecond .
this is not an electron microscope recording it &apos;s a regular microscope recording .
of course , this can &apos;t be done by a human machine leader .
so this is where we need digital security systems .
and if they &apos;re at risk , really bad things can happen .
the power plant can explode .
and neither the machine leaders , nor the safety system , will notice it .
that &apos;s frightening .
but it gets worse .
and what i &apos;m saying now is very important .
think about it . this attack is generic .
he has nothing to do with centrifuge , with uranization .
it &apos;s such a big molecule that we can actually see it with the light microscope .
so , for example , he would work just as well -- in a power station or in a car factory .
it &apos;s generic .
and you don &apos;t have to -- as the attacker -- you don &apos;t have to put the usage data on a usb stick , as we saw at stuxnet .
you could also use ordinary worm technology to spread .
you just have to spread it as far as possible .
and if you do that , you end up with a cyber weapon of mass destruction .
that &apos;s the consequence that we have to face .
so unfortunately , the biggest number of goals for these attacks is not in the middle east .
they &apos;re in the united states , in europe and japan .
so all these green areas , these are the most targeted environments .
this is footage over six seconds .
we have to face the consequences , and we start to prepare ourselves better .
thank you .
i have a question .
ralph , a lot of it was reported that people assume that the mossad is the main organization behind it .
is that your opinion ?
okay , you really want to know ?
yeah . okay .
i think the mossad is involved , but the driving force is not israel .
so the driving force behind this is cyber superpower .
there &apos;s only one , and these are the united states -- fortunately , luckily .
this is the publication that we just finished recently .
because otherwise our problem would be even bigger .
thank you for letting us feel frightened . thank you ralph .
i &apos;ve spent the last few years trying to place myself in situations that are usually very difficult and at the same time dangerous .
i went to jail -- difficult .
i worked in a coal mining -- dangerous .
i was filming in war zones -- difficult and dangerous .
and i spent 30 days eating nothing but this -- fun at the beginning , a little bit difficult in the middle , very dangerous at the end .
in fact , i &apos;ve been exposed to most of my career to the appearance of terrible situations , and just to try to study social belonging in a way that makes them engaging and interesting , and hopefully in a way that makes them fun and accessible to the audience .
so when i knew i was going to come here to look at the world of branding and sponsoring in a tedtalk , i knew i was going to do something a little different .
some of you may have heard that a few weeks ago , i turned on an ad on ebay .
this is over 580,000 letters of genetic code . it &apos;s the largest molecule with defined structure ever created by humans .
i sent some facebook messages , some twitter news , and i gave people the opportunity to get the name rights on my tedtalk 2011 .
in fact , some happy people and companies , for-profit and non-profit , got the unique opportunity -- because i &apos;m sure chris anderson will never let it back -- buy the rights of the talk that you &apos;re seeing right now , who didn &apos;t have a title or a lot of content and didn &apos;t give a lot of clues about what the subject would actually be .
so what you got was this : your name presented here : my tedtalk , which you have no idea what the topic is going to be , and that could ultimately fly around your ears for content , especially if i were to make your company stupid for your participation .
but apart from that , it &apos;s a very good media opportunity .
do you know how many people look at these tedtalks ?
a whole lot .
this is just the title of labor , by the way .
so despite that warning , i knew that somebody was going to buy the name rights .
now , if you had asked me this a year ago , i wouldn &apos;t have been able to tell you this with certainty .
but in the new project that i &apos;m working on , my new film , we &apos;re looking at the world of marketing , advertising .
it has molecular weight of over 300 million .
as i said , over the years , i &apos;ve been in some pretty terrible situations , but nothing could prepare me , nothing could get me ready to go to anything as difficult and as dangerous as these guys are to go into a room .
you know , i had the idea for a film .
what i want to do is make a film around product placement , marketing and advertising , where the whole film is funded by product placement , marketing and advertising .
and the film will be called &quot; the greatest movie ever sold . &quot;
so what happens in &quot; the greatest film ever sold &quot; is that everything , from top to bottom , from beginning to end , is completely covered with brands -- from the cover sponsor you &apos;re going to see in the movie , this is the brand x .
now this brand , the qualcomm stadium , the stadium center ...
these people will be connected to the film in eternity forever .
and so the film is going to study this whole idea -- this is what ? in eternity , forever ?
i &apos;m a redundant person .
that was more for emphasis .
if we printed it with a writing size of 10 and without any waste , it would encompass 142 pages just to print this genetic code .
it was &quot; in eternal , forever . &quot;
but we &apos;re not just going to have the x as a cover sponsor , but we &apos;re going to make sure that we &apos;re going to sell every category in the film .
so we might sell a shoe , and he &apos;s going to be the greatest shoe you &apos;ve ever worn ...
in the early &apos; 80s , i got a really amazing task when my professor at harvard asked me if i was interested in going to haiti and infiltrating the secret societies that were the foundation of the strength of duvalier and tonton macoutes and the poison that was used to make zombies safe .
the greatest car you &apos;ve ever driven from &quot; the greatest film ever sold , &quot; the greatest drink you &apos;ve ever had , an awareness of &quot; the greatest film ever sold . &quot;
so the idea is , besides showing that brands are part of life , actually , to get them to fund the film ?
and we &apos;re actually showing the whole process of how it works .
the goal of the whole film is transparency .
you &apos;re going to see the whole thing going on in the movie of stats .
so that &apos;s the whole concept , the whole film , from beginning to end .
and i would be happy to help ceg do this .
well , how do we start a chromosome ? how do we activate it ?
you know , it &apos;s funny , because when i first heard it , it &apos;s the ultimate respect for the audience .
but i don &apos;t know how conception people are going to be .
do you have a perspective -- i don &apos;t want to use &quot; perspective , &quot; because that has a negative connotation -- but you know how this is going to evolve ?
how much money is needed to realize that ?
1.5 million .
i think it &apos;s hard to meet them , but i think it &apos;s definitely worth addressing some really familiar brands .
who knows when the film comes out , we might look like a horde vollidiot .
what do you think the answer is going to be ?
the answer will probably be &quot; no . &quot;
but is it a difficult thing to do because of the film or a difficult thing about me ?
obviously , it &apos;s very simple with a virus . it &apos;s much more complicated to deal with bacteria .
jk : both .
so ... doesn &apos;t mean that optimistic .
so , sir , can you help me ? i need help .
i can help .
okay .
fantastic .
we need to think about which brands .
yeah .
if you look at the people you have to do it with ...
there are some places that we can turn to .
it &apos;s as simple when you do it in eukaryonts as we are : you just take out the nucleus and you put another one in it , and that &apos;s exactly what you &apos;ve all heard about the cloning .
put the camera out .
i thought , &quot; put the camera out &quot; would mean that we wanted to have a backup conversation .
it turns out that it really meant , &quot; we don &apos;t want to have anything to do with your film . &quot;
and just so , all these companies disappeared , one after the other .
no one wanted to have something to do with the movie .
i was amazed .
they didn &apos;t want to have anything to do with the project .
and i was confused , because i thought the whole concept of advertising was to present your product as many people as possible , make it as many people as possible .
especially in the world today , in this intersection of new and old media and the fragmented media landscape -- it &apos;s not the idea of being in this new exciting medium tool that masses are bringing this message .
no , that &apos;s what i thought .
in archaebacteria , the chromosome is integrated into the cell , but we &apos;ve just recently shown that you can take a complete transplant of a chromosome from one cell to the other and activate it .
but you see , the problem was that my idea had a fatal mistake , and that was the following .
in fact , no , that was not the mistake at all .
that wouldn &apos;t have been a problem at all .
that would have been okay .
but what this image represents is a problem .
you see , if you type transparency in the google search , this is -- this is one of the first images that seems .
i really like your kind , sergey brin . now .
that was the problem : transparency -- free of deception and clothes , just to discover and look through , instantly understandable , characterized by visibility and access to information , especially in terms of business practices -- the last line is certainly the biggest problem .
you know , we &apos;re hearing a lot about transparency right now .
our politicians say it , our president says it , even our ceos say it .
we cleaned the chromosome of a microbial species . roughly , these two are as far apart as humans and mice . we gave some extra genes so we could choose this chromosome . we put it in enzymes to destroy all the proteins . and it was very amazing when we put it in a cell -- and they &apos;re going to estimate our very mated graphs here .
but when it comes to the point that it should be implemented , something changes .
but why ? well , transparency is frightening -- like this strange bear that still breaks .
it &apos;s unpredictable -- like this strange highway .
and she &apos;s also very risky .
what else is risky ?
a whole shell of cool whip .
this is very risky .
so when i started talking to the companies and telling them that we wanted to tell this story , they said , &quot; no , we want you to tell a story .
we want you to tell a story , but we just want you to tell our story . &quot;
you see , when i was a kid and my father caught me lying -- and there he is sitting and looking at me with this view -- he would say , &quot; my son , there are three versions in every story .
the new chromosome went into the cell .
there &apos;s your version , there &apos;s my version , and there &apos;s the real version . &quot;
so you see , with this film , we wanted to tell the real version .
but there was only one company , an agency ready to help us -- and just because i know john bond and richard kirshentree for years -- i realized that i had to do it alone , i had to go around the middle man and go right to the companies with my team .
so what they suddenly began to understand -- or what i started to understand -- was that when you start talking to these companies , the idea of how your brand is understood is a broad problem .
i have friends making big , gigantic hollywood movies , and i have friends making little independent movies like me .
and my friends who make big , gigantic hollywood movies say that the reason their films are so successful is because of the brand partners they have .
and then my friends who make little independent movies say , &quot; well , how do we compete with these big , gigantic hollywood movies ? &quot;
and the movie is called &quot; the greatest movie ever sold . &quot;
so how exactly are we going to see the ban in the movie ?
every time i go on my way , and every time i open the medical closet , you will see ban deodorant .
in fact , we thought that this was the end , but we tried to bring the process a little bit further .
and every time i interview somebody , i can say , &quot; are you fresh enough for this interview ?
are they there ? they look a little nervous .
i want to help you calm down .
so maybe you should put a little bit of this in front of the interview . &quot;
and then we offer one of these great dunes .
either &quot; floral fusion &quot; or &quot; paradise winds , &quot; they will have the choice .
we &apos;re going to be equipped for both men and for women -- solid , roll-on , or a stick , whatever .
this is the short socket .
now , i can answer all of your questions and give them a feasible census .
we &apos;re a smaller brand .
this is the main mechanism of evolution here .
as you &apos;ve talked about the smaller movies , we &apos;re a challenge as a brand .
so we don &apos;t have a budget like other brands .
so doing these things -- you know , people remember ban -- that &apos;s kind of why we &apos;re interested .
in which words would you describe ban ?
ban is blank .
that &apos;s a great question .
superior technology .
technology is not the way you should describe something that somebody is doing under the axes .
we &apos;re talking about bold , fresh .
i think &quot; fresh &quot; is a great word that this category really makes something positive , as opposed to &quot; fight smell and humidity . &quot;
we find all kinds of species here that have taken a second chromosome or a third of anywhere , each time adding thousands of characteristics to a species in just a second .
it keeps you fresh .
how can we keep them fresh longer -- better fresh , more fresh , three times more fresh .
these things have a more positive effect .
and this is a million-dollar company .
what about me ? what about the printing box ?
i have to talk to the man on the street who are like me , otto normal consumers .
i want you to tell me something about my brand .
how would you describe your brand ?
hmmm , my brand ?
i don &apos;t know .
so people who think of evolution as a gene that &apos;s changed at a point in time , a lot of biology has missed .
i really like beautiful clothes .
80s , revival hits skate points , except on the wash day .
all right , what &apos;s the brand gerry ?
in order to make sense of this sensation , of course , i had to know something about this remarkable belief of vodoun and voodoo is not a cult of black magic .
unique .
i think the genre , the style i have , is probably dark glamour .
i like a lot of black colors , a lot of gray notes and stuff like that .
but i usually have a accessoire , like sunglasses , or a jewelry and stuff like that .
if dan was a brand , he would probably be a classic mercedes cabrio .
the brand that i am is , i would say , the neat fly .
part of the hippie , part of yogi , part of the brooklyn-girl -- i don &apos;t know .
there are enzymes called restriction enzymes that are actually digesting dna .
man 3 : i &apos;m the museum .
i sell scholars all over the country , around the world .
so i think this is my brand .
this is my brand in my little , distorted industry .
man 4 : my brand is fedex because i was executive .
man 5 : brand failed alcohol addict .
is that possible ?
lawyer : i &apos;m a lawyer &apos;s brand .
i &apos;m tom .
now , we can &apos;t all be the tom-brand , but i often see myself in the intersection of dark glamour and the neat fly .
the chromosome that was in the cell has no one ; the chromosomes that we &apos;ve added in .
and what happened was that i needed an expert .
i needed somebody who could go into my head , somebody who could really help me understand what they call &quot; brand personality . &quot;
and so i found a company called olson zaltman in pittsburg .
they have helped companies like nestle , febreach , hallmark to discover this brand personality .
if they could do it for those , they could help me as well .
they brought their pictures with them , right ?
i have that . the first picture is a picture of my family .
just tell me a little bit about how this is connected to your thoughts and feelings about you .
these are the people who shape my worldview .
tell me about this world .
it was expressed in the cell , and it recognized the other chromosome as a foreign material , and so we ended up with only one cell with a new chromosome .
md : this world ? i think your own world is the world that you live in -- like people around you , the friends , the family , the way you live your life , the work and so on .
all of these things come and start from a place , and for me they come and start with my family in west virginia .
what &apos;s the next thing you want to talk about .
next . this was the most beautiful day of my life .
what is the context of the thoughts and feelings about yourself ?
it &apos;s the way i &apos;d like to be .
i like things that are different .
i like things that are strange . i like strange things .
tell me about the &quot; why &quot; phase -- what does it bring us ?
what is the machete ? what puppetry are you in right now ?
it was colored blue because of the genes that we added in .
why is it important to reboot ? what does the red represent ?
tell me a little bit about this part .
a little bit more about you , not you .
what other metamorphosis have you gone through ?
... that doesn &apos;t have to be afraid . what kind of rollercoaster are you in ?
eeeeee ! no , thank you .
thank you very much for your patience .
yeah . all right .
yeah , i don &apos;t know what it &apos;s going to be like .
there were a lot of crazy things going on .
and after a very short time , it had lost all the characteristics of species and completely converted into a new species based on the new software that we put into the cell .
the first thing that i saw was this idea that their brand personality had two separate , but it had supplementary pages -- the morgan spurlock brand is an eight-hour brand .
they &apos;re very good at adding .
and i think there &apos;s almost a contradiction with this .
and i think some companies are just going to focus on a strength , rather than both .
a lot of companies tend to -- and this is human nature -- avoiding things that they &apos;re not sure about , they &apos;re going to avoid these elements , and they &apos;re going to welcome them , and they &apos;re actually going to turn them into something positive for themselves , and this is a skilled chess .
what other brands do this ?
the first one is a classic , apple .
and you can also see it here , target , wii , mini of mini coopers and jetblue .
well , there are trade-offs and eight brands , these things that come and go , but a playful , eight brand is a pretty strong thing .
an eighth , playful brand . what &apos;s your brand ?
all the proteins changed the membranes -- when we read the genetic code , it was exactly what we transferred .
if somebody asked you to describe your brand identity , your brand personality , what would it be like ?
are you up-attribute ? are you something that puts the blood in the woods ?
or are they more of a down-attribute ?
are you something a little quieter , more reservative , more conservative ?
up-attributes are things that are playful , fresh like the fresh prince , timely , adventurous , outlandish and loving like erol flynn , agile and agile , professional , magical and mystical like gandalf .
or are they more like a down attribute ?
are they mindful and montage like 007 ?
are you established , traditionally , nurturing , protective , compassionate like oprah ?
are they reliable , stable , family , safe , born , sacred , considerable , like the dalai lama or yoda ?
over the course of the film , we had over 500 companies that were up and down companies saying no , because they didn &apos;t want to be part of the project .
it may sound like genomic alchimie , but we can , by changing the software dna , change things quite dramatically .
they didn &apos;t want to have anything to do with this film , because they didn &apos;t have control , no control over the finished product .
but then , 17 brand partners who were willing to get into this control , who wanted to do business with someone as eight and playful as i did , and who eventually enabled us to tell stories that we couldn &apos;t usually tell -- stories that a commercial would never support .
they enabled us to tell the story of neuromarketing , as we tell the story in this film , that today you use mris to find the fun centers of the brain , to make advertising and film .
we went to sao paulo , where output has been banned .
in the entire city , there has been no evidence , no poster , no flyer , nothing in the last five years .
and we went to school districts where companies are in their way in the poor schools , across america .
the incredible thing for me is that the projects that i got the most feedback from , or where i had the greatest success , are where i was interacting with things directly .
and that &apos;s what these brands did .
because they went around the middle man , they went around the agencies , and they said that the agencies might not really have their interest in mind .
i &apos;m going to negotiate with the artist directly .
now i &apos;ve argued that this is not the genesis -- this is based on 3.5 billion years of evolution .
i &apos;m going to work with him and create something completely different , something that makes people think , that our worldview challenges .
and how was that for you ? what was it successful ?
now , since the film was on the sundance film festival , we can look at it .
according to burrelle , the premiere was in january , and since -- and this is not even the whole thing -- there were 900 million calls from this film .
this actually only includes a period of two and a half weeks .
this is just online -- no press , no television .
the film hasn &apos;t been delivered yet .
it &apos;s not even online . it &apos;s not a streaming .
he hasn &apos;t come out in other countries yet .
well , finally , the film has acquired a very big momentum .
and i &apos;ve argued that we might be in the process of creating a new kind of cambrian explosion where there might be massive new species education based on this digital design .
and that &apos;s not bad for a project where almost every advertising agency that we talked to , has recommended their customers to let their fingers go .
one of the things that i really believe about is that when you take your chance to take risks , there are opportunities in these risks .
i think if you keep people out of it , you get them to fail .
i think that if you &apos;re training your employees to avoid risks , you &apos;re preparing the whole company to get a profit .
i feel that we need to encourage people to take risks in the progression .
we need to encourage people not to be afraid of possibilities that might scare them .
finally , when we move forward , we should welcome fear .
we should put the bear in the cage .
welcome the fear . welcome the risk .
there &apos;s a big spoon on each , so we welcome the risk .
why should we do that ?
and finally , we should welcome transparency .
today , more than ever , a little bit of honesty brings us very far .
on the contrary , it &apos;s a complex metaphysical view of the world .
and that said , with honesty and transparency , my whole talk , &quot; welcome transparency , &quot; was presented by my good friends of emc , who paid 7100 dollars for the name rights of ebay .
big data is being transformed for organizations around the world into big opportunities .
emc presents &quot; welcome transparency . &quot;
thank you .
now , morgan , on behalf of transparency , this : what happened to the dollar 7100 ?
that &apos;s a great question .
i put a check in my pocket , put it on the top of the ted organization , the sapling foundation -- a $ 7100 check to fund my ted performance in the next year .
my name is amit .
i think it &apos;s pretty obvious in terms of what we need .
18 months ago , i did something else at google , and i started doing something with museums and art , and my boss , who is now , gave me green light .
and it took 18 months .
a lot of fun negotiations and stories , i can tell you , with 17 very interesting museums from nine countries .
but i &apos;m going to focus on the demo .
there are a lot of stories about why we did this .
i think my personal view is very simple with this slide and its access .
i grew up in india .
i became a great education -- i don &apos;t complain -- but i didn &apos;t have too many museums and these works of art .
so when i went to these museums , and i went to see these museums , i started learning a lot .
and while i was working for google , i was trying to make this yearning -- make art more accessible -- with technology .
we &apos;ve gone from six and a half billion people to nine billion people in the next 40 years .
we then formed a team , a great team , and we started with this .
i &apos;m going to start with the demonstration , and tell you some interesting things that happened since the launch .
so you just go to google project.com .
you can look around in all these museums here .
there &apos;s uffizi , the moma , the hermitage , the rijks , the van gogh .
i even come to one of my favorite , the metropolitan museum of art in new york .
you come in two ways -- very simple .
click , and wumms , you &apos;re in this museum .
it doesn &apos;t matter where you are -- bombay , mexico , it doesn &apos;t matter .
you go around and amuse yourself .
to put it in my context , i was born in 1946 .
you want to orient yourself in the museum ?
open the map , and jump with a click .
they &apos;re in there , they want to go to the end of the gangs .
just further . a lot of fun .
hire them .
thank you , but the best part is still coming .
so i &apos;m now in front of one of my favorite images , harvest workers from pieter breugel in the met .
i see this plussian sign .
when the museum gave us the picture , they click on it .
now this is one of the images .
today , three people on this planet are for everyone who existed in 1946 ; within 40 years , it &apos;s going to be four .
this is all metadata .
those of you who are really interested in art can click here -- but i click this away now .
this is one of the images that we &apos;ve captured with what we call the gigapix technology .
for example , this picture has about 10 billion images , i think .
and a lot of people ask me , &quot; what do you get for 10 billion images ? &quot;
this is what i &apos;m going to show you .
you can zoom in and out very easily .
you see something fun here .
i love this guy ; his expression is unaffordable .
but then you really want to go deep in .
we have problems with food , with fresh and clean water , medicine , 6.5 billion people fuel .
and so i started playing around , and i realized something was going on there .
and i thought , &quot; wait a minute , that sounds interesting . &quot;
i went close , and i slowly realized that these kids actually beat something .
i did a little research , i spoke to some of the known people at the met , and i actually found out that this is a game called squail , where a gans is beaten on the side of the tuesday with a stick .
apparently , it was quite popular .
i don &apos;t know why they did it , but i learned something about it .
to go really close , you can go to the cracks .
just to give you the overview , i zoom out so you can see what you get .
here we were , and this is the painting .
the best part , though , is -- in a second .
it &apos;s going to be a challenge to offer that to nine .
let &apos;s jump quickly to moma , again , in new york .
another favorite picture of me , star night .
the previous example was about finding detail .
but what if you want to see the pink strikes ?
and what if you want to see van gogh doing this masterpiece ?
you zoom in . you can actually go in .
i &apos;m going to zoom in on one of my favorite parts of this picture until i &apos;m really in the cracks .
this is star night , probably never seen like this before .
now i &apos;m going to show you my favorite function .
there are many more , but i don &apos;t have time .
we need over five billion tons of coal , 30-plus billion barrels of oil . that &apos;s a hundred million barrels a day .
that &apos;s the really cool part , it &apos;s called collections .
every one of you , every -- whether it &apos;s rich or poor , if you have a great house -- doesn &apos;t matter .
you can go and create your own museum online -- from all of these images , you can put your own collection .
very simply , you go in -- and i &apos;ve created this , it &apos;s called the power of the zoom -- you can zoom around .
this is &quot; the donors , &quot; in the national genius .
you can see everything with remarks , send to your friends , and start a conversation about what you feel when you look at these masterpieces .
i think , in closing , the main thing for me is that all the wonderful things don &apos;t come from google .
they don &apos;t even come from the museums , i think .
i shouldn &apos;t say that .
they come from artists .
when we think about biological processes , or any process to replace that , it becomes a huge challenge .
and that was an experience in humility for me .
i mean , i hope we &apos;re going to talk to this digital medium of art , and represent it properly online .
and the biggest question i &apos;m asked recently is , &quot; did you do this to replicate the experience of a museum visit ? &quot;
the answer to that is no .
it &apos;s to add the experience .
that &apos;s what it &apos;s about . thank you .
thank you .
this is a representation of your brain . your brain can be divided into two halves .
that &apos;s the left half , which is the logical side , and then the right half , which is the intuitive side .
if we had a scale to measure the aptitute of every hemisphere , we could represent your brain .
then , of course , there &apos;s all the co2 from this material that ends up in the atmosphere .
for example , this person would be completely logical .
this would be somebody who is completely intuitive .
now , where would you position your brain at this scale ?
some of us may have chosen for one of these extreme , but i think for most people in the audience , your brain looks something like this -- with a high aptitute at the same time in both hemisphere .
it &apos;s not like they &apos;re both exclusive or something like that .
they can be logical and intuitive .
and so i think of myself as one of the people , along with most other experimental quantum physicists , who needs a good percentage of logic to put the complex ideas together .
but at the same time , we need a good percentage of intuition to actually do the experiments .
how do we develop this intuition ? well , we love playing with things .
so we go out and play with it and then see how it responds , and then we start to develop our intuition there .
we now have , from our discoveries around the world , a database of about 20 million genes , and i want to believe that these are the design components of the future .
basically , they do the same thing .
so one of the intuitions that you &apos;ve developed over the years is probably that a thing can only be in one place at the same time .
it &apos;s interesting .
i mean , it can sound strange to think that a thing is at the same time in two different places , but they weren &apos;t born with this idea , they developed it .
i remember seeing a child playing on a floor threshold .
he was a little kid , and he wasn &apos;t very good at it , and he was constantly falling .
but i bet playing with the ground threshold taught him a very valuable lesson , which is that big things don &apos;t just let you pass , and they stay in one place .
and that &apos;s a great conceptual model of the world as long as they &apos;re not a particle physicist .
it would be a terrible model for a particle physicist , because they &apos;re not playing with groundsells , they &apos;re playing with these little strange particles .
and when you play with your particles , you find all sorts of strange things -- like you can fly right through walls , or you can be in two different places at the same time .
and so they wrote down all these observations , and they called them the theory of quantum mechanics .
the electronics industry had a dozen components , and look at the diversity that came out of it .
that was the state of physics a few years ago ; it took quantum mechanics to describe the little , tiny particles .
but it didn &apos;t take them to describe the great everyday objects around us .
that didn &apos;t like my intuition , and maybe just because i don &apos;t play with particles so often .
well , i play with them sometimes , but not very often .
and i &apos;ve never seen them .
i mean , nobody has ever seen a particle .
but my logical side didn &apos;t like it either .
because if all things are made of particles and all these particles follow the rules of quantum mechanics , shouldn &apos;t it just follow the rules of quantum mechanics ?
i don &apos;t see why it shouldn &apos;t be that way .
so i would feel very strongly about the whole thing , if we could somehow show that everyday objects also follow the rules of quantum mechanics .
we &apos;re primarily bumping into the limits of biological reality and the limits of our imagination .
so a few years ago , i set out to do this .
i created one .
this is the first object you can see , which was in the quantum mechanical superposition .
so what we &apos;re looking at here is a tiny computer chip .
and you can see this green dot there in the middle .
this is the piece of metal that i &apos;m going to talk about in a moment .
this is a picture of the object .
here i &apos;m going to scale it up a little bit . we &apos;re going to look right here at the center .
and here &apos;s a really big close-up of this little piece of metal .
so what we &apos;re looking at is a little piece of metal that &apos;s shaped like a springboard , and it &apos;s over the edge .
we have technologies today because of these fast synthesities to do what we call combinatorial genetics .
so i made this thing in a similar way that you make a computer chip .
i went to a clean space with new siliconium slices , and i racked on all the big equipment for 100 hours .
for the last bit , i had to build my own machine -- to get this kind of swimming pool hole and this thing .
this thing has the ability to be in the quantum mechanical superposition , but it takes a little bit of help to do it .
look , let me give you an analogy .
you know how uncomfortable it is to be in a full elevator ?
i mean , if i &apos;m alone in the elevator , i do all kinds of weird things , but then other people go up , and i stop doing all these things because i don &apos;t want to hurt them , or , frankly , they disappear .
so quantum mechanics says that unmovable objects feel the same .
the fellow drivers for intractable objects are not just humans , but also the light that appears to them and the wind that &apos;s past them and the heat of the space .
and so we knew that if we wanted to see this piece of metal behaving quantum mechanically , we had to throw out all the fellow passengers .
we now have the ability to build a large robot that can make millions of chromosomes a day .
and then we did .
we switched off the light , put it in a vacuum , and we sucked all the air and cooled it up until almost now , on the elevator , the piece of metal was free to behave as it wanted .
so we measured its movement .
we found that it &apos;s really strange to move .
instead of just sitting there quietly , it vibrated . the way it vibrated was something like this -- like a stretching and parenting bubble .
in which we gave him a little push , we could vibrate it at the same time and not vibrate -- something that is just allowed in the quantum mechanics .
so what i &apos;m going to tell you right now is what &apos;s truly fantastic .
what does it mean to vibrate an object at the same time and not vibrate ?
let &apos;s think about the atoms .
so the first case : all the trillions of atoms that are made of the metal are still there , and at the same time , the same atoms are moving up and down .
if you can imagine making these 20 million different genes or optimizing these processes to make octane or drugs new vaccines , we can change more molecular biology with a small team than the last 20 years of science .
just to precise time points , they agree .
for the rest of the time , they &apos;re delocated .
that means that each atom is at the same time in two different places , which at the same time means that the whole piece of metal is in two different places .
i think that &apos;s really cool .
really .
that was worth closing me in the clean space for all this year , because , check this out , the scale difference between a single atom and that piece of metal is about the same as the difference between the piece of metal and you .
so if a single atom can be in two different places at the same time , this piece of metal can be in two different places , why not you ?
i mean , that &apos;s just what my logical side says .
so , imagine you &apos;re in a number of places at the same time , how would that feel ?
how would your consciousness deal with your body being delocated in the room ?
and it &apos;s just fine selection . we can select for life , production of chemicals , or fuel production , vaccine production , and so on .
there &apos;s another aspect of the story .
when we warmed it up , turned on the lights and looked in the box , we saw that the piece of metal was always in a piece .
and so i had to develop this new intuition that it looks like all the objects in the elevator are really just quantum objects that are made together in a small space .
you hear a lot of talk about how quantum mechanics says that everything is connected to everything .
well , that &apos;s not quite right .
there &apos;s more to it , it goes deeper .
it turns out that these connections , their connections with all the things around them , literally define who they are , and that &apos;s the profound and strange of quantum mechanics .
thank you .
in 2007 , i decided that we should reconceptualize how we think about economic development .
it should be our goal that if families think about where they want to live and work , they will be able to choose between at least one hand of different cities , all competing for new residents .
this is a shot of actual design software that we &apos;re working on , which is actually sitting down and designing new species on the computer .
we &apos;re far from this goal right now .
there are billions of people in the developing world who don &apos;t even have a single city that would welcome them .
but the amazing thing about cities is that they &apos;re worth so much more than it costs to build them .
so we could use the world very easily with stupid , perhaps even hundreds of new cities .
now this may sound absurd to you , as far as you &apos;ve never thought about new cities .
just exchange the building of apartments for the cities .
imagine half of the people who want to live in apartments already did this , but the other half didn &apos;t .
you could try to expand the capacity of the existing apartments .
but you know what they &apos;re going to be able to be involved in , in these apartments and their environment , there are laws to avoid being complained and to deflect from building .
so it turns out to be very difficult to get all these extensions .
you know , we don &apos;t necessarily know what it &apos;s going to look like . we know exactly what their genetic code is going to look like .
but you could go to a whole new place , build a whole new block of housing , assuming that the laws would support you and not prevent you from doing that .
so i &apos;ve proposed that governments create new areas that provide enough space for a city , and have given them a name : charter cities .
i later found out that , about the same time , jafour and octavio , were thinking about the challenge of reform in honduras .
they knew that , every year , about 75,000 hondurans leave their country to go to the united states , and they wanted to know what they could do to make sure that these people could stay in their country and do exactly the same thing in honduras .
at this point , jafour said to octavio , &quot; what happens if we take an undefeated surface of our country -- what if we just put it in a message -- part of the american embassy ; part of the canadian bottleneck -- and if people want to go to work under the canadian rules or the united states , can they work there , and can they do anything on the surface of these messages , which they usually have to go to canada or america ? &quot;
in the summer of 2009 , honduras suffered from a severe comprehension crisis .
in the next plantant elections , pepe lobo won in a turnaround , whose program promised both innovations and slight .
he asked octavio to become his head of stable .
in the meantime , i was preparing for a talk at tedglobal .
by improving , by testing , by studying consumers , i &apos;ve tried to reduce this complicated concept of charter city to the basic elements .
we &apos;re now focusing on the fourth generation of fuels .
the first point is the importance of laws , laws that determine that you can &apos;t disturb existing housing owners .
we give great attention to new technologies , but for progress , it needs technologies and laws , and it &apos;s usually laws that keep us back .
in the fall of 2010 , a friend of guatemala octavio sent the link to the tedtalk .
he again showed him jafour .
they called me the two .
and he said , &quot; let &apos;s present this to the chairman of our country . &quot;
so we met in december in the boardroom of a hotel in miami .
i &apos;ve tried to make it clear how valuable cities are to how much more valuable they are than they are .
and i used this graph to show you how valuable rohland is in a place like new york , and remember that in some cases , a surface is worth thousands of dollars per square meter .
but it was a pretty abstract discussion , at a point when there was a break , octavio said , &quot; paul , maybe we could look at the tedtalk . &quot;
you &apos;ve seen corn to ethanol recently , which is just a bad experiment .
so the tedtalk was in a very simple way that a charter city is a place where it is initially uninhabited land , a founding contract that determines the laws that are there and that gives people the opportunity to decide to live or not live under those rules .
that &apos;s why i was asked by the president of honduras who said that we had to do this project , that it &apos;s important , and that this is the way we &apos;re going to bring our country forward .
i was asked to come to tegucigalpa and give a talk on the fourth and fifth of january .
if i asked you to count the great world religions , what would you say ?
so i gave another talk with facts filled , which includes a graph like this , which tries to illustrate that if you want to create a lot of value in a city , it has to be a very large city .
this is a picture of the city of denver , and the sketch represents the new airport that was built in denver .
this airport alone has a surface of 100 square kilometers .
so i &apos;ve tried to convince the hondurans , if you want to build a new city , you have to start with an area of at least 1,000 square kilometers .
that &apos;s more than 250 thousand acres .
politely , everyone applauded .
the audience &apos;s faces were very serious and alert .
we have second and third generation fuels that are going to come out pretty soon that will have much higher sugar , like octanol or different kinds of butanol .
the congressman came on the stage and said , &quot; professor romer , thank you for your talk , but maybe we could look at the tedtalk .
i &apos;ve got it here on my laptop . &quot;
so i sat down , and they played the tedtalk .
and i &apos;ve come to the point that a new city offers new opportunities to people .
there would be the opportunity to live in a city that would be in honduras , instead of hundreds of miles away in the north .
and a new city also includes new opportunities for leaders .
the government leaders in honduras would be dependent on the help of partnership countries , they could benefit from their partnerships that they would support in the building of the laws for this charter and the performing , that everyone can trust that the charter is actually being implemented .
and the realization of president lobo was that the certainty of the translation i &apos;ve been thinking about as a way to get the foreign investors to come and build this city could be equal to all the parties in honduras that have been in fear and suspicion for many years .
we went to an area .
this picture is from this place .
but , as we think , the only way that biology is going to have a huge impact without further increases in the cost of food or the limitation of the availability is when we see co2 as a source material , and that &apos;s why we &apos;re working on cells that go this way .
it sums up thousands of square miles .
and shortly after that , on january 19th , they voted for a change in constitution to have a comprehensive rule that is reliable for specific developing areas .
in a country that has just been a huge crisis , in which congress was elected for this change in the constitution at 124 to a voice .
all the parties , all the fractions of society , supported this .
to become part of the constitution , but it has to be approved twice by congress .
on february 17th , it was approved at 114 to a voice .
immediately after this election , between the 21st and february 24th , a delegation of about 30 famines traveled to the two places in the world that were most interested in entering the business of urban building .
one place is south korea .
this is a picture of a large , new city center built in south korea -- big as the city center of bostons .
everything you can see in this picture was built within four years , after it took four years to get the permits .
and we think we &apos;re going to be the first with the fourth generation fuels , in about 18 months .
the other place that was very interested in urban construction is singapore .
it &apos;s already been built in two cities in china , and the third is in preparation .
so if you &apos;re basically thinking about it , it &apos;s where we are today .
you already have a construction site , and you &apos;re already mentioning this area for the second city .
it &apos;s already worked on a legal system that allows managers to participate , and it &apos;s also working on an external legal system .
a country has already offered to provide its supreme court as a court for the decent appeal of the court system there .
urban designers and construction are also very interested .
they even bring in funding .
one thing , as you know , has been explained , there are a lot of rents .
there are a lot of businesses that would like to live in america , especially in a place with a free trade zone , and there are a lot of people who would like to live there .
sunlight and co2 are a method .
there are 700 million people around the world who say they want to live in a different place permanently .
a million people leave latin america every year and go to the united states .
many of them are fathers who are forced to leave their families behind to look for work -- sometimes single mothers who have to make enough money to afford food and clothes .
unfortunately , it &apos;s even kids who are trying to find their parents , who , in some cases , have not seen them for a decade .
so what &apos;s the idea of building a whole new city in honduras ?
or even building shocking out of these cities , or hundreds of them all over the world ?
so what is it for an idea to insist that every family has a choice between several cities competing for new residents ?
that &apos;s an idea worth spreading .
my friends from honduras asked me to say , thank you ted .
do you know how many decisions you make on a typical day ?
but in our discovery of the world , we have all sorts of different ways .
do you know how many decisions you make in a typical week ?
i &apos;ve done a poll with over 2,000 americans recently , and the average number of decisions that , according to a typical american , is 70 .
moreover , a recent study was done with ceos , watching ceos for a week .
and these scientists have just documented the different subjects that this ceo is dealing with , and how much time they spend making decisions that relate to the topics .
and they found that an average ceo is dealing with 139 tasks in the week .
each of these topics , of course , was made of many , many smaller decisions .
50 percent of their decisions have been made within nine minutes or less .
we have to deal with the unstoppable separation of death , and so it shouldn &apos;t surprise us that we all sing and dancing and art .
only for about 12 percent of their decisions , they took an hour or more of their time .
think about your own decisions .
do you know how many decisions do you make in the nine minutes of category against those in the one hour of category ?
this is an organism that we described in 1996 .
how good do you think you are at copying the decisions ?
today i want to talk about one of the biggest decision-making problems of our modern time , the decision overlap problem .
i want to talk about the problem and some possible solutions .
now , when i talk about this problem , i &apos;m going to ask you some questions , and i want to know your answers .
if i ask you a question , raise , because i &apos;m blind , only the hand if you want to burn some calories .
otherwise , i ask you , if i ask you a question , and your answer is yes , so my first question for today is : are you ready to hear something about the overlap problem ?
thank you .
when i was a graduate student at stanford university , i went to this very exclusive grocery store , at least at the time , he was really exclusive .
it was a store called draeger &apos;s .
this business , it was almost like a pleasure park .
he lives in the deep sea , about a mile and a half , at almost cooking water temperatures .
they had 250 different kinds of mustard and essive and over 500 different kinds of fruits and vegetables and more than two dozen different kinds of water -- and that was at a time when we actually drunk water .
i loved to go to this business , but at some point i wondered , well , how come you never buy anything ?
here &apos;s the olive oil gang .
they had over 75 different kinds of olive oil , including those who were locked in boxes that came from a thousand year-old olive trees .
so one day , i decided to go to the filiallary , and i asked the ladder , &quot; does this model work that you really offer people all these possibilities ? &quot;
and he pointed at the bus charges of tourists who came every day and used to have their cameras .
we decided to do an experiment , and we chose marmelade for our experiment .
here &apos;s her martian gang .
they had 348 different kinds of martian .
we put a little costing blanket right at the entrance of the business .
it converts co2 into methane , using hydrogen as an energy source .
we &apos;ve put six different flavors on mars , or 24 different flavors of mars , and we &apos;ve looked at two things : first of all , what would more people stand up and try martians ?
there are more people left when it was 24 , about 60 percent , than when it was six , about 40 percent .
and after that , we looked at what case people bought more of a glass martian .
now we saw the reverse effect .
of the people who were standing up when it was 24 , only three percent actually bought a glass of melade .
of the people who stood up when they were six , well , now we saw that 30 percent of them actually bought a glass martian .
well , if you calculate it , people bought six times more of a glass martian , who they had six to choose than if they had 24 to choose .
well , to decide not to buy a glass of marmelade is probably good for us -- at least it &apos;s good for our waistline -- but it turns out that the decision overlap is also affecting us with very consequence decisions .
we don &apos;t choose to decide , even though it &apos;s against our own best interests .
so the theme of the day : save financial .
we &apos;re looking at whether we can use stored co2 , which could just be brought to production stores , convert co2 into fuel to power this process .
now i &apos;m going to describe to you a study that i did with gur huberman , emir kamenica , wei jang , where we looked at saving the decisions for retirement of almost a million americans from about 650 plans across the united states .
and what we looked at was whether the number of fondsda officers who were capable of a retirement plan , the 401 plan , the chance of saving more for tomorrow .
and we found that there was actually a relationship .
so in these plans , we had about 657 plans that would offer people anything between two and 59 different fonds .
and what we found was that the more fonds were offered that , in fact , the more that participation was lower .
now , if you look at the extreme , the plans that offered two fonds , a subsidiary in the &apos; 70s -- still not as high as we want .
in the plans that offered almost 60 fonds , the subsidiaries now fell to about the sixth percentage .
now it turns out that even if you &apos;re going to participate , if you have more choices to choose , even then , it has negative consequences .
so the people who decided to participate tend to be more likely to have the more possibilities they have available , the more they rent activises and fonds .
the more possibilities they had , the more they put all their money in pure money market accounts .
within a short period of time , we think we could be able to solve one of the fundamental questions of life .
none of these extreme decisions , they belong to the decisions that any human being would recommend if our future financial well-being is important to us .
christianity , islam , buddhism , judaism or whatever .
well , in the last 10 years , we &apos;ve seen three major negative consequences in people who are providing more and more choices .
they &apos;re pushing the decision -- push it up , even if it &apos;s against their own best interest .
they make worse decisions -- worse financial and worse medical decisions .
they choose more for things that they make themselves less happy , even if they make it objective .
the main reason for this is that maybe we enjoy looking at these huge shelves of mayonaise , mustard , essive and martian , but we can &apos;t actually draw the comparisons and the boundaries and then actually choose something from the fantastic deal .
so what i want to suggest to you today is four simple techniques -- techniques that we &apos;ve tested in different ways and different research places -- that you can just apply in your business .
first of all , limited .
you &apos;ve heard it before , but it was never more true than it is today .
people are always concerned when i say , &quot; limited . &quot;
you know , we really have -- moderate goals like replacing the whole petrochemical industry . right . if you couldn &apos;t do that at ted , where else ? become a major source of energy .
they &apos;re always worried that they &apos;re losing real estate .
but in fact , we see it more and more that if you &apos;re willing to be willing to constrain , and the unimportant equal opportunities are going to get rid of , well , then there &apos;s a increase in sales , there &apos;s a low cost , there &apos;s a r &amp; amp ; d improvement in decision-making .
when proctor and gamble reduced the different head and shoulder species from 26 to 15 , they experienced a 10 percent increase in sales .
when the golden cat corporation got rid of their 10 worst selling cat cat , they found that the profits went up by 87 percent -- a result of both the sales and the reducing of cost .
you know , the average supermacrt today offers you 45,000 products .
a typical walmart offers you 100,000 products today .
but the ninth largest supermarket in the world today is aldi , and they only give you 1,400 products -- a kind of tomato sauce in doses .
now , in the world of savings , i think one of the best examples that has recently come to the market , about how best you manage choice , was something that david laibson has very much co-designed , and it &apos;s a program that &apos;s being offered at harvard .
every single harvard staff is now automatically participating in a lifetime fund .
those who really want to make a choice are offered 20 fund , not 300 or more fonds .
but that &apos;s how we &apos;re currently working on using the same approaches to the development of vaccines .
you know , as people often say , &quot; i don &apos;t know how to restrict it .
it &apos;s all important opportunities . &quot;
and the first thing i ask the employees is , &quot; tell me how the possibilities are different from each other .
and if your employees can &apos;t keep them apart , your customers can &apos;t . &quot;
well , before we started lunch today , i had a conversation with gary .
and gary said that he would be willing to offer to all the people in this audience an all-served vacation to the most beautiful street in the world .
here &apos;s a description of the street .
and i want to read them to you .
and now i &apos;m going to give you a few seconds to read them , and i &apos;m going to ask you to clap , if you &apos;re willing to take gary &apos;s offer .
okay . everyone who &apos;s willing to take gary &apos;s offer .
you saw it this year with flu , we &apos;re always in the back of the year , and we have a dollar too little when it comes to the right vaccine .
are they all ?
all right , let me show you a little bit more of that .
they knew it was a trick , right ?
now , who &apos;s ready for this journey .
i think i may have heard more hands .
all right .
the fact is that , objectively , for the first time , they had more information than the second time , but i would argue that they felt it real the second time .
because the images made it more real for them .
which brings me to the second technology , which helps them deal with the problem of decision overlap , which is concretization .
it &apos;s about people , in order to understand the difference between possibilities , to understand what the consequences are associated with the individual possibilities , and that these consequences have to be vividly and concrete .
i think it can be changed by creating recombined vaccines in advance .
why do people spend , on average , 15 to 30 percent more if they use an ec-map or a credit card than in barmoney ?
because it doesn &apos;t really feel the money .
and it turns out that if you can make something feel concrete , it &apos;s a very good tool to get people to save more .
so we did a study that i did with shlomo benartzi and alessandro previtero , and we did a study with the people at ing -- employees who worked for ing -- and these people were all in a gathering where they signed up their participation in their retirement plan .
and during this gathering , we &apos;ve left this gathering just like it was , we &apos;ve added a little bit of a thing .
the small thing that we added was that we asked people to just think of all the positive things that would happen in their lives if they saved money .
in which we did this simple thing , there was an increase in participation by 20 percent , and there was an increase in the number of people who were willing to save or a four percent increase in the amount that they were willing to pay for the savings accounts .
third technology : categorization .
we can deal with more categories than with more choices .
here , for example , is a study that we did in a paperwork .
that &apos;s what the future might look like with changes , can now be accelerated with the evolutionary tree with synthetic bacteria , archaeas , and perhaps eukaryonts .
it turns out that in the throwaway supermarkets up and down in the northeast , the number varies between 31 different types of magazines up to 664 magazines .
but you know what ?
if i show you 600 magazines , and i split them into 10 categories , or i show you 400 magazines , and i split them into 20 categories , you think i &apos;ve given you more choice and a better choice than i would have given you the 400 over if i gave you the 600 .
because the categories tell me how to keep them apart .
here are two different jewelry layers .
one is called &quot; jazz , &quot; and the other is called &quot; swing . &quot;
if you think that the left ad is swing and the display on the right is jazz , you clap your hands .
okay , there are a few .
if you think it &apos;s on the left side of jazz and the one on the right side of swing , please clap .
okay , a few more .
we are light years away from improving people , and our goal is that we have a chance to survive long enough to do that . thank you very much .
well , it turns out they &apos;re right .
the one on the left is jazz , and the one on the right is swing , but you know what ?
this is a highly unuseful categorization scheme .
the categories have to say something to the selector , not which one provides the choice .
and this is a problem that you often see when you look at the long lists of all these fund .
who do you really want to inform with this ?
my fourth technology : requirement of complexity .
it turns out that we can actually deal with more information than we think , we just have to simplify it .
we need to slowly increase complexity .
i &apos;m going to show you an example of what i mean .
at the last ted conference , i gave an introduction to the lhc .
let &apos;s take a very , very complicated decision : buy a car .
here &apos;s a german car manufacturer who gives you the opportunity to completely self-assemble your car .
you have to make 62 different decisions to completely design your car .
now these decisions are different from the number of choices that you offer per decision .
car color , outdoor color of the car -- i have 56 possibilities .
motors , motors -- four possibilities .
what i &apos;m doing now is i &apos;m changing the order in which the decisions appear .
half of the customers go from the many ways to 56 car colors to the low possibilities , four drives .
the other half of the customers go from the low possibilities , four gears , to the 56 car colors , many possibilities .
what am i looking at ?
and i promised to come back to tell you how the machine works .
how interested they are .
if you use the standard choice in the decision all the time , it means you &apos;re being overwhelmed , the hottest , i lose it .
what they find is that the people who go from the many to the low selective paths over and over again choose the standard choice .
we lose them .
if you go from the little choices to the many , you stay with it .
it &apos;s the same information . it &apos;s the same number of possibilities .
the only thing i &apos;ve done is to change the order in which this information is presented .
when i start with the simple start , i learn how to choose .
even though the engine chooses , nothing about my preferences in interior equipment says , it &apos;s still preparing me to choose .
it also excites me about the great product that i put together , and so i &apos;m willing to motivate myself to be with interest .
so now it is . and for those of you who weren &apos;t there at the time , the lhc is the biggest scientific experiment that has ever been done -- 27 kilometers in diameter .
let me summarize .
i &apos;ve told you about four techniques that mimic the problem of decision overlap -- limits -- get rid of the overliquid alternatives ; concrete it -- make it real ; categorize -- we can better deal with more categories , less possibilities ; preparing for complexity .
each of these techniques that i &apos;m going to describe to you today is meant to help you manage the possibilities -- good for you , you can use them for yourself , good for the people you offer service .
because i think the key to the best possible choice is that you &apos;re picky in choice .
and the more we choose , the better we will be able to practice the art of choice .
thank you .
hi . i &apos;m kevin allocca , trends-manager at youtube . i look at youtube videos .
that &apos;s true .
today , we want to talk about how videos get viral , and then we want to talk about why this is really important .
we all want to be stars -- celebrities , singers , comedians -- when i was young , it seemed so infinitely difficult .
his job is to create the conditions that existed less than a billionth of a second after the universe began -- up to 600 million times within a second .
but web videos have enabled us all , or all our creative activities , to become terribly famous in a part of the world &apos;s culture .
every single one of you could be famous about the internet to the next saturday .
but on youtube , more than 48 hours of video is uploaded every minute .
again , just a tiny percentage of this is ever viral and is looked at thousands of times and seen at the cultural moment .
a continent is always left out , because the guess was that there was no religious faith in sub-saharan africa , and of course there was one , and voodoo is simply the remaining of this very profound religious thought that came across during the tragic diaspora of slavery time .
so how does this work ?
three things : tastemaker , participation communities and the unexpected .
well , then we want to .
oh my god . oh my god .
oh my god !
whoa !
it &apos;s just breathtaking ambition .
ohhh , wowwwww !
last year , bear vasquez sent this video that he had filmed in front of his house in yosemite national park .
in 2010 , it was 23 million times viewed .
this graph shows what it looked like when the video was first popular last summer .
in fact , bear didn &apos;t want to make a viral video .
he just wanted to share a rainbow .
because this is how you do it when you &apos;re called yosemite mountain bear .
he had uploaded a lot of natural videos .
and this video had actually been sent in january .
what happened here ?
this is the machine underneath geneva .
there was jimmy kimmel .
jimmy kimmel sent the tweet , who ended up making the video so popular .
because tastemaker like jimmy kimmel introduces us to new and interesting things and show a big audience .
it &apos;s friday , friday . gotta get down on friday . everybody &apos;s looking forward to the weekend , weekend . friday , friday . gettin &apos; down on friday . you wouldn &apos;t have thought we &apos;d have this conversation without talking about this video , i hope .
rebecca blacks &quot; friday &quot; is one of the most popular videos of the year .
it &apos;s been looked at almost 200 million times this year .
this is what the graph looked like .
just like &quot; double rainbow , &quot; it seems to have come out of nowhere .
what happened that day ?
well , it was friday , that was true .
we take pictures of these mini-big bangs in detectors .
if you want to know , these other spikes are also fridays .
but what about that day , that particular friday ?
well , tosh.0 forgot it , a lot of blogs started writing about it .
michael j. nelson from the mystery science theater was one of the first to make a joke on twitter .
what &apos;s important is that a single person or group of tastemakers took a standpoint , shared it with a large audience , and accelerated the process .
and then this community of people who shared this great insider joke and started talking about it and playing around with it .
now there are 10,000 parodies of &quot; friday &quot; on youtube .
in the first seven days , there was a parody for every single week .
unlike the one-way entertainment of the 20th century , the participation of the community is our way to become part of this phenomenon -- either by spreading it or making something new out of it .
nyan cat is animation and music in endless loop .
this is what i work on . he &apos;s called the atlas detector -- 44 meters in diameter , 22 meters in diameter .
that &apos;s it , very simple .
this year , it &apos;s been looked at almost 50 million times .
and if you think that &apos;s crazy , you should know that there &apos;s a three-hour version of it that &apos;s been looked at four million times .
even cats look at this video .
cats look at cats looking at this video .
what matters is the creativity that exists in the internet culture of techie and geeks .
there were remixes .
somebody made an old-fashioned version of it .
and then it became international .
a whole remix community took off the ground that made it from a stupid joke to something that we can all participate in .
here &apos;s a spectacular picture of the atlas in construction so you can see the scale .
today , we don &apos;t just find pleasure in something , we &apos;re going to join .
who could have looked at all this ?
who could have predicted &quot; double rainbow &quot; or rebecca black or &quot; nyan cat &quot; ?
what are the scripts that you could have written that are in ?
in a world where every minute , two days of video is uploaded , only really can produce unique and unexpected videos like the videos that i mentioned .
i admit i wasn &apos;t particularly interested when a friend told me to watch this great video , about a guy protesting in new york against ticket for bicycles .
i got a ticket because i didn &apos;t go on the bike lane , but there are often disabilities that don &apos;t make you drive on the bike lane .
since this was completely surprising and humorous , casey niestats was looked at the funny idea and his argument five million times .
this approach to everything new that we do creatively .
and all of this leads to the one big question ...
on september 10 , last year , the machine went on for the first time .
what does that mean ?
ohh .
what does that mean ?
tastemaker , creative communities , completely unexpected , are the characteristics of a new kind of media and culture that everyone has access to and that the audience is popular in .
as i said , one of the great stars right now -- justin bieber -- did his beginning on youtube .
nobody has to give your ideas green .
and today we all feel like we are owners of our pop culture .
and these are not the features of old media , and they &apos;re not going to meet the media today , but they &apos;re going to determine the conversation of the future .
thank you .
and this picture was taken by atlas .
the story is not over yet .
she &apos;s a puzzle that &apos;s still being put together .
i want to tell you about some of the puzzles .
imagine the first piece : a man who burns his life &apos;s work .
he &apos;s a poet , a writer , a man whose whole life has been held together by the simple hope of oneness and freedom of his home .
keep him in mind at the march of the communist in saigon , as he needs to admit that his life had been a single waste .
the words , as long as his friends , were mocking his .
he went back to the silence .
he died , broken by history .
he &apos;s my grandfather .
it caused immense juice in the control room .
i never met him personally .
but our lives are so much more than our memories .
my grandmother never let me forget his life .
i had to make sure that it wasn &apos;t free , and it was my job to learn that history was trying to crush us , but we got through it .
the next piece of puzzle shows how a boat is running in the early morning red quiet in the sea .
my mother may was 18 when her father died -- already in an arranged marriage , with two little girls .
for her , life had set her a task : the escape of her family and a new life in australia .
it was completely exclusive that she could fail .
after a four-year-old and film tire saga glitt , a boat still targeted on the lake as a fishing boat .
all adults were aware of the risks .
it &apos;s a picture of the first radiation particle that put the entire trajectory around the lhc , then , intentionally , collided with a part of the lhc to put a rain of particles on the detector .
they were afraid of pirate , rape and death .
like most adults on the boat , my mother was carrying a little poison bottle .
in a prisoner , my sister and i , then you and my grandmother would have drunk from it .
my first memories are of this boat -- the steady tuckers of the engine , the clapping of every wave on the bug , the long and empty horizon .
i don &apos;t remember the pirates that came out many times , but the death of the men on our boat , or the error of the engine that six hours didn &apos;t want to start .
but i remember the lights of the oil spill off the malayan coast , and the young man who collapsed and died , the end of the journey was too much for him , and the taste of the first apple that one of the men gave me on the platform .
no apple ever tasted like that again .
after three months in a refugee camp , we ended up in melbourne .
and the next piece of puzzle is about four women in three generations who together build a new life .
we went to footscray nieder , one of the working-class suburbs , whose population is made of immigrant layers .
in other words , when we saw this image on september 10 , we knew that the machine works , which is a big triumph .
unlike in the old-fashioned middle class suburbs , whose existence was completely unknown to me , there was no sophistication in footscray .
but what makes voodoo so interesting is this living relationship between the living and the dead .
the smells from the ladders came from the rest of the world .
and the feats were exchanged between people who had one thing in common : they started new .
my mother worked on farms , then on a assembly line in a car factory , six days , doubled layers .
it somehow managed to find the time to acquire english and it qualifications .
we were poor .
every dollar was admitted and was put into further education for english and mathematics , no matter what we had to do for it , and most of the time , the new things that always came out of second hand .
two strands for school , each to cover the holes in the other .
a school uniform to the buttons , because it had to reach six years .
and there were the rare but painful choirs of &quot; sniff eye &quot; and here and there are mural paintings : &quot; asians , go home . &quot;
i don &apos;t know if this created the biggest lever , or this , when someone visited the google page and found the front page .
home where ?
something went up in me .
there was a meeting for reconciliation , and a quiet voice said , &quot; i &apos;m going to go out of your way . &quot;
my mother , my sister and i slept in the same bed .
my mother was exhausted every night , but we told each other about our day , and we listened to the movements of our grandmother in the house .
my mother suffered from the boat on nightmares .
and it was my job to stay awake every night , until their nightmares came so i could wake them up .
she opened up a computer business , then she made a cosmetic education , and she opened a business .
and the women came with their stories about men who didn &apos;t get the change , angry and unflexible , and sorrow kids , captured between two worlds .
loans and sponsors were searched .
it means that we have a cultural impact beyond the scientific reach .
centers were built .
i lived in parallel worlds .
in one , i was the classic asian student who was the relentless demands of himself .
in the other hand , i was involved in unsafe life , wearing tragic scars of violence , drug abuse and insulation .
but so many got help over the years .
and because of this aid , i was selected in my last year of law school as a young australian of the year .
and i was catapulted from one piece of puzzle to the next , and the edges didn &apos;t fit together .
tan le , anonymous residents of footscray , was now tan le , refugee and social activist who was invited to speak to places she had never heard of , and in homes whose existence she could never have imagined .
i wasn &apos;t familiar with the label .
i didn &apos;t know how to use the bribe .
about a week later , there was a problem with the machine that had to do with these wires here -- these golden wires here .
i didn &apos;t know how to talk about wine .
i didn &apos;t know how to talk about anything .
i wanted to go back to the routine and the convenience of the life of an unknown suburb -- a grandmother , a mother and two daughters who closed each of their days as closing as they were for 20 years , telling each other the stories of their day and sleeping , three of us still in the same bed .
i told my mother i couldn &apos;t do that .
she reminded me that i was now as old as they were when we climbed the boat .
no , never been an opportunity .
&quot; just do it , &quot; she said . &quot; and don &apos;t be what you &apos;re not . &quot;
so i talked about juggling and training , and the neggling of marginalized and disenfranchised .
and the more open i talked , the more i should tell .
i met people in all the lifetimes , so many of them did what they loved , lived on the limits of the possible .
these wires lead 13-thousand ampere when the machine is running up .
and even though i graduated , i realized that i couldn &apos;t find myself with a career in jura .
there had to be another piece of puzzle .
and i realized at the same time that it &apos;s okay to be an outsider , a newcomer , new in the picture -- and not just okay , but something you have to be grateful for , maybe a gift of the boat .
because belonging so easily can lead to the collapse of the horizon can mean so easily that you accept the assumptions of the environment .
now i &apos;ve gone from my comfort zone to know that yes , the world is breaking apart , but not the way you fear it .
possibilities that would not have been allowed have been explicitly encouraged .
there was an energy , an inexorable optimism , a strange mixture of humility and wagnity .
so i followed my gut feeling .
i collected a small team of people around me , for which the boxes didn &apos;t go &quot; an irresistible challenge .
for a year , we didn &apos;t have a cent .
well , the engineers amongst you will look at them and say , &quot; no , you don &apos;t . these are little wires . &quot;
at the end of a day , i cook a giant pot of soup that we shared .
we worked till late at night .
most of our ideas were crazy , but they were a few brilliant people , and we made the breakthrough .
i made the decision to move to the u.s .
after just a trip there .
my gut feeling again .
three months later , i was moved , and the adventure continued .
before i close the talk , i want to tell you about my grandmother .
she grew up at a time when confucianism was the social norm and the local mandarin the most important person .
life had not changed for centuries .
they can do that because if you cool them down very far , they become so-called superconductors .
her father died shortly after her birth .
her mother raised her alone .
at 17 , she became the second woman of a mandarin whose mother beat her .
without her husband &apos;s support , she worried for a sensation by bringing him to court and being an advocate in her own case , and a bigger sensation than she won .
it &apos;s not &quot; untrue . &quot;
i was shooting in a hotel room in sydney when she died , 1,000 miles away in melbourne .
i looked through the shooting wall , and i saw it standing on the other side .
i knew she had come to say goodbye .
my mother called me a few minutes after that .
a few days later , we went to a buddhist temple in footscray and we sat around their sarg .
so at minus 271 degrees , colder than the room between the stars , these wires can hold the tension .
we told her stories , and we insured her that we were still with her .
at midnight , the monk came and said he had to close the coffin .
my mother asked us to touch her hand .
she asked the monk , &quot; why is your hand so warm and the rest of her is so cold ? &quot;
&quot; because you &apos;ve been holding them this morning , &quot; he said .
&quot; you didn &apos;t let them go . &quot;
if there &apos;s a band in our family , it &apos;s going through the women .
if you can see who we were and how life shaped us , we can now see that the men who might have come into our lives would have come into the jar .
the defeat would have been too simple .
now i &apos;d like to have my own children , and i &apos;m still thinking about the boat .
in one of the connections , between nine thousand magnets in the lhc , there was a factory turtle .
who would ever wish one ?
yes , i &apos;m afraid of privilege , of ease , of correction .
can i give you a bug in your life that defies courageously every wave , the unbiased , steady tuckers of the engine , the long horizon that doesn &apos;t guarantee anything ?
i don &apos;t know .
but if i could give this and make it safe , i would do it .
and also , tans &apos; mother is here today in the fourth or fifth row .
i &apos;m here to share my photography with you .
is it even photography ?
because , of course , this is a picture you can &apos;t take with your camera .
and yet , my interest in photography began when i got my first digital camera at the age of 15 .
and by doing that , the wires heated slightly , and 13-thousand ampere suddenly encountered electric resistance .
i combined it with my earlier preference for drawing , but it was a little bit different , because using the camera , the process was actually in planning .
and if you take a picture with a camera , the process ends when you hit the trigger .
so for me , photography seemed to be more about being in the right place at the right time .
i thought everyone could do that .
so i wanted to create something else , something that the process starts when the trigger is pressed .
photographs like this : a building site along a much more sophisticated road .
but it has an unexpected twist .
and yet , it keeps a realistic level .
or photographs like this -- dark and colorful at the same time , but all with the common goal of keeping a realistic plane .
when i say reality , i mean photoreality .
this was the result .
because , of course , it &apos;s not something you can really capture , but i always want to make it look like you could have , in a photograph .
photographs where you have to think for a moment to figure out the trick .
so it &apos;s more about capturing an idea than really a moment .
but what is the trick that makes it look realistic ?
is it about the details or the colors ?
is it about the light ?
the living bears give the spirits .
what creates the illusion ?
sometimes perspective is the illusion .
but ultimately , it &apos;s about how we interpret the world , and how it can be made tangible on a two-dimensional surface .
it &apos;s not about what is realistic , but what we think is realistic .
now , this is even more impressive when you imagine that the magnets weigh over 20 tons and shifted by about 30 inches .
so i think the basics are very simple .
i think of them as a puzzle of reality where you can take different pieces and put them together to create an alternative reality .
and let me show you a simple example .
we have three perfectly imaginable physical objects that we can all identify with in a three-dimensional world .
but in a certain way , combined , you can create something that still looks three-dimensional , as if it could exist .
but at the same time , we know that this is not possible .
so we &apos;re overlisting our brains , because our brain just doesn &apos;t accept that it doesn &apos;t really make sense .
and i see the same process in combining photographs .
it &apos;s really just about combining different realities .
so the things that make a picture look realistic , i think it &apos;s the things that we don &apos;t think about , the things around us in our everyday lives .
so we damaged about 50 of the magnets .
but when we combine photographs , it &apos;s really important to think about it , because otherwise they just look kind of wrong .
so i would say that there are three simple rules to follow , to achieve a realistic outcome .
as you can see , these are not three special images .
but in combination , you can create something special like this .
so the first rule is that combined photos should have the same perspective .
secondly , combined photos should have the same type of lighting .
and these two pictures meet these two requirements -- shot from the same altitude and the same kind of lighting .
third , it &apos;s about making it impossible to distinguish where the individual images start and end by connecting them seamlessly .
it &apos;s impossible to say how the photograph was actually put together .
so by comparing color , contrast and brightness to the edges , added to the individual images , photographic lack , like field depth , degraded colors and disorders , we wipe the boundaries between the different images and make them look like a single photograph , even though a picture can basically contain hundreds of levels .
and they had to remove what we did .
here &apos;s another example .
you might think that &apos;s just a landscape , and the bottom part has been manipulated .
but this picture is actually completely composed of photographs of different places .
i personally find that it &apos;s easier to create a place than to find a place , because you don &apos;t have to go into compromise with the ideas in your head .
but it requires a lot of planning .
and when i had this idea in the winter , i knew that it took me several months to plan it , to find the different places for the pieces of the puzzle .
for example , the fish had been taken on a trip .
the shore is from a different place .
the underwater part comes from a quarry .
and yes , i &apos;ve even colored the house up on the island in red to make it look more swedish .
we reconditioned them , repaired them .
so to achieve a realistic outcome , it goes from me to planning .
i always start with a sketch , an idea .
after that , it &apos;s about the combination of the different images .
and here &apos;s every piece very well planned .
and then if you take good images , the result can be pretty beautiful , and also pretty realistic .
so there are all the tools there , and the only thing that limimics us is our imagination .
thank you .
i &apos;d like to talk to you about why so many electronic health projects fail .
and i think the most important point is that we &apos;ve stopped talking to our patients .
and one of the things we introduced at bike boud university was to hire a major listener .
you &apos;re all on your way back now .
she doesn &apos;t do it in a particularly scientific way -- she introduces a cup of coffee or tea and asks the patients , families , relatives , &quot; how do you do it ?
how can we help you ? &quot;
and we think we want to think that this is one of the main problems why everyone -- maybe most of the electronic health projects are missing : because we &apos;ve stopped listening .
this is my wlan-scale . it &apos;s a very simple thing .
she has a button , on / out .
and every morning i jump on it .
and yes , i have a task , as you might recognize .
i did my job at 95 pounds .
it works very simply : every time i jump on the scale , it also sends my data to google health .
and they &apos;re also called out by my general doctor , so that he can see where my weight problem is , and that &apos;s not just the moment i need cardiological support or something , but also with a view of the past .
by the end of march , the lhc will be again functional .
but there &apos;s something else .
you might know , i &apos;ve got over 4,000 followers on twitter .
so every morning i jumped on my wlan-scale , and people are talking to me before i sit in the car , &quot; for lunch , just a little salad today , lucia . &quot;
but this is the nicest thing that can happen , because this is the group forced , group forced to help patients , because this could be used against obesity , or it could get patients smoking off .
but it could also be used to get people out of their chairs and get them to play some kind of game together to better control their health .
next week , this is the market .
there &apos;s going to be this little blood pressure measuring device that you attach to an iphone or something .
and it will allow people to measure their blood pressure from home , send it to their doctor , for example , and share it with others , for a little over 100 dollars .
at this point , the patients come in , they can not only take control , they can be captain on their own ship , but they can also help us with the challenges that we face , and the cost explosion of health care , double-demand , and so on .
do methods that are easy to use , and start to hug patients on the team .
we &apos;re going to turn it on , and we &apos;re going to expect to be able to collect first data in june or july , and continue our journey to figure out what the building blocks of the universe are .
and they can do that through these kinds of methods , but also through crowdsourcing .
and one of the things we &apos;ve done is i want to share with you through a quick video .
we have all the navigation systems in our cars .
maybe even in our cell phones .
we know exactly where all the atm machines are around maastricht .
we know another one where all the gas stations are .
and sure enough , we can find fast food chains .
but where would the next aed be to help this patient ?
we were asking around , and nobody knew .
nobody knew where to find the next life-saving aed at that moment .
well , of course , in a way , such accidents , again , the debate about the value of science and engineering on these kinds of boundaries , it &apos;s easy to reject that kind of thing .
so what did we do ? we did crowdsourcing in the netherlands .
we built a website and asked a crowd of people , &quot; if you see an aed , please share with us where it is , when it has up , &quot; because sometimes it &apos;s closed during business , of course .
and over 10,000 aeds have been reported in the netherlands .
the next step was to find the apps for this .
and we designed an ipad app .
we &apos;ve developed an app for layar , extended reality to find these aeds .
and if you &apos;re in a city like maastricht and someone collapses , you can use your iphone , and within the next few weeks your microsoftware cell phone to find the next aed that can save lives .
and today , we want to introduce this as not just aed4u , as the product is called , but also as aed4us .
and we want to take this to a global level .
and we ask our colleagues around the world , from other universities , to help us behave like node points to crowdsource these aeds all over the world .
i think the fact that it &apos;s so hard to get over our borders is the value of things like the lhc .
and if you &apos;re on holiday and someone collapses , whether it &apos;s your own relationship or anyone else , you can find an aed like that .
the other thing we want to ask for is that companies around the world are helping us confirm these aeds .
these might be copious services , or technicians , for example , just to make sure that the melted aed is still in its place .
please help us , and try to not only improve health , but take control of it .
thank you .
today i &apos;m going to report unexpected discoveries .
i work in the solar technology industry .
and my little startup wants us to force ourselves to conserve by ...
... it &apos;s paying attention to crowdsourcing .
here &apos;s a quick video of what we &apos;re doing .
i &apos;m going to leave my final words to an english scientist . humphrey davy , who , i think , when he defend the useless experiments of his teaching , his apprentice was michael faraday , said this : &quot; nothing is so dangerous for the development of the human mind as a assumption that our scientific ideas are final , that there are no mysteries in nature that our triumpsy are full , and that there are no new worlds to conquer . &quot;
oh . a moment .
it might take time for it to be invited .
now -- we can just jump this over -- i &apos;m just going to skip the video instead ...
no .
that &apos;s not ...
okay .
solar technology is ...
the spirits can be charged by the great water , responding to the rhythm of dance , to extend the soul of the living temporarily , so that acolyth becomes god for a brief shiny moment .
oh , my time is over ?
okay . thank you very much .
so a few years ago , i started a program to get the stars in technology and design to take a year off and work in an environment that &apos;s pretty much everything that they actually hate , we made them work in government .
thank you .
the program is called code for america , and it &apos;s a little bit like the peace scorps for geeks .
we choose some fellows every year , and we let them work with city administrations .
instead of sending them to the third world , we send them to rathugs .
and they developed great apps , worked with urban employees .
but what they really do is show what &apos;s possible with technology today .
so they meet al .
al is a hydrant in the city of boston .
here it looks like he &apos;s looking for a date , but what he &apos;s really looking for is somebody who &apos;s releasing him when he &apos;s in the field , because he knows he &apos;s not very good at branding when he &apos;s covered by a meter of snow .
how did he get to look for help in this particular way ?
last year , we had a team of fellows in boston , the code for america program .
i &apos;m a writer .
they were there in february , and it did a lot last february .
and they realized that the city never makes these hydrants freely .
but a particular fellow , a guy named erik michael ober , noticed something else , and that was that the residents were freely shooting the sidewalks right in front of these parts .
so he did what any good developer would do , he wrote an app .
it &apos;s a nice little app where you can adopt a hydrant .
you agree with him when it snows up .
if you do that , you can give him a name , and he called the first al .
if you don &apos;t do that , somebody can take it away from you .
so there &apos;s a nice little game dynamic .
this is a modest little app .
writing books is my profession , but of course it &apos;s more than that .
it &apos;s probably the smallest of the 21 apps that the fellows have written last year .
but it does something that no other government technology does .
it spreads rapidly .
there &apos;s this guy in the i.t. section of the city of honolulu who saw that he could use this app , not for snow , but for the citizens to adopt tsunami sirens .
it &apos;s very important that these tsunami sirens work , but people steal the batteries .
so he got the citizens to check them out .
and then seattle decided to use the app to get the citizens to clean the clogged gulls .
and chicago has just introduced them so that people will open up the burial sticks when it snows .
we now know nine cities that are planning to use this app .
and it &apos;s been expanding , organic , of course .
it &apos;s also my great , life-long love and fascination .
if you know something about government technology , you know it doesn &apos;t usually work that way .
the software typically takes a few years to get it .
we had a team that worked on a project in boston last year that took three people two and a half months to do .
it was about a way of trying to figure out which parents are the right public schools for their children .
we were told later that if it went over the normal channels , it would have taken over two years , and it would have cost over two million dollars .
and that &apos;s nothing yet .
there &apos;s a project right now in california that has cost the taxpayers two billion dollars , and it doesn &apos;t work .
and there are projects like this at every level of government .
so an app that &apos;s written in a few days , and then it spread from rare , is a kind of a shot from the bow to the institution of the government .
it shows how government could work better -- not more like a private company , how many people think it should work .
and i don &apos;t expect that to change .
and not even like a tech company , but rather like the internet itself .
and that means free access , which means open and productive .
and that &apos;s important .
but what &apos;s more important about this app is that it represents a new generation that tackles the problem of government -- not as the problem of a sale institution , but as a problem of collective action .
and that &apos;s a very good news , because it turns out that we &apos;re very good at collective action with digital technology .
now , there &apos;s a big community of people who make the tools that we need to effectively put things together .
it &apos;s not just &quot; code for america &quot; fellows , there are hundreds of people all over the country writing up and writing government apps every day in their own communities .
they didn &apos;t give up with the government .
they &apos;re terribly frustrated with her , but they don &apos;t complain about it , they repair it .
and these people know something we &apos;ve lost from our eyes .
however , there &apos;s something strange happening in my life and my career that has made me completely rethink my relationship with this work .
and that &apos;s when you forget all your feelings about politics and the snake at work and all the other things that we &apos;re really excited about is government , in the core , in the words of tim o &apos;reilly , &quot; what we can do together that we can &apos;t do alone . &quot;
today , a lot of people have given up the government .
and if you &apos;re one of those people , i ask you to think about it , because things change .
politics doesn &apos;t change ; the government is in change .
and because ultimately , the government is exhausting its power from us -- remember , &quot; us the people ? &quot; -- as we think about it , it &apos;s going to affect how this change happens .
i didn &apos;t know very much about government when i started this program .
and like a lot of people , i thought the government was mainly about choosing people into an office .
now after two years , i &apos;ve come to the conclusion that it &apos;s all about communities , about thylacines .
this is the call center for service and information .
that &apos;s where you usually come out when you call in your city 311 .
this strange event was that i recently wrote a book -- a biography called &quot; eat , pray , love &quot; -- which , unlike all my previous books , for some reason , went out into the world and became a big mega-event , international bestseller thing .
if you ever have the chance to work in your urban call center , like our fellow scott silverman , as part of the program -- in fact , they all do -- you &apos;ll see that the people who call government for many different problems , including a thylacine in your house .
so scott gets this fruit .
he &apos;s typing &quot; thylacine &quot; into the official database .
and he doesn &apos;t really have an idea . he starts with the animal beginner .
and finally , he says , &quot; look , can you just open all the doors in your house and play very loud music and see if the livestock is smashing ? &quot;
and that worked . applause for scott .
but that wasn &apos;t the end of the thylacine .
boston doesn &apos;t just have a call center .
it has an app , a web and cell phone app , called citizens connect .
we didn &apos;t write this app .
the result is that , no matter where i come from , i &apos;m treated as if i was the demise .
this is the work of very smart people at the office of the new urban mechanics in boston .
one day -- this is an actual report -- came in : &quot; thylacine in my trash bin . can &apos;t tell if it &apos;s dead .
how do i get them away ? &quot;
but what happens to citizens connect is different .
scott was talking from human to human .
but on citizens connect , it &apos;s all public , so everyone can see it .
and in this case , it saw a neighbor .
and the next post we got was , &quot; i went over there , found the trash bin behind the house .
thylacine ? yes . alive ? yap .
turned the trash bin on the side . went home .
good night , sweet thylacine . &quot;
seriously , the demise is borrowing !
pretty simple .
this is great . this is where the digital hits the physical .
and it &apos;s also a good example of how to get government into crowdsourcing .
but it &apos;s also a great example of government as a platform .
and i don &apos;t necessarily mean a technical definition of the platform .
i &apos;m more talking about a platform for people to help themselves and to help others .
a citizen helped another citizen , but the government played a central role here .
they connected these two people .
and you could have combined them with government services if they had been needed , but a neighbor is a far better and cheaper alternative to state services .
for example , do you worry about me and say , &quot; don &apos;t you fear that you will never overcome that success ?
if one neighbor helps the other , we will strengthen our communities .
let &apos;s call the animal beginner , it costs a lot of money .
one of the most important things is that we have to think about it , is that government is not the same as politics .
and so the voodoodooists like to say , &quot; you know , you go to the church and you talk about god .
and most people understand that , but they think one thing is the input of the other .
that our contribution to the system is the choice .
how often have we chosen a political leader -- and sometimes we &apos;ve used a lot of energy to choose a new political leader -- and then we reject ourselves , and we expect the government , reflected our values and fulfilled our needs , and then not much has changed ?
this is because the government is like a further ocean , and politics is the top 15 inches .
and what &apos;s underneath is what we call bureaucracy .
and we use this word with such contempt .
but it &apos;s this contempt that we have , and that we pay for , that makes us feel something that works against us , something else , and then we deformed ourselves .
are you not afraid that you &apos;re going to write your whole life on and never create a book that anyone in the world is interested in ? never again ?
people seem to think , politics is sexy .
if we want this institution to work for us , we have to do bureaucracy sexy .
because this is where the actual government work is happening .
we have to rely on the machinery of government .
so the occupythesia movement did it .
did you see these guys ?
it &apos;s a group of troubled citizens who wrote a very detailed 325-page report , which is an answer to the sec-memo over the financial reform act .
this is not political , this is bureaucratic .
well , for those of us who have given up the government , it &apos;s time for us to think about the world that we want to leave to our children .
you have to imagine the enormous challenges that they have to face .
okay , that really makes the courage .
do we really believe that we have to achieve what we have to do without improving the institution that can act in the name of all of us ?
a government is absolutely necessary , but it has to get more efficient .
the good news is that technology makes it possible to promote the function of government in a way that can actually achieve something by strengthening society .
and there &apos;s a generation that &apos;s grown up with the internet , and that knows that it &apos;s not that hard to do things together , you just have to build the right systems .
now the average age of our fellows is 28 , so i am , unfortunately , almost one generation older than most of you .
this is a generation that grew up looking at their voice for granted .
they &apos;re not fighting this fight that we &apos;re all fighting for who &apos;s allowed to speak ; they &apos;re all allowed to speak .
you can make your mind on every channel at any time , and you can do it .
so if you &apos;re faced with the problem of government , don &apos;t care so much about using your voices .
they use their hands .
but it would be worse if i didn &apos;t remember that over 20 years ago , when i first told when i was a teenager that i wanted to be a writer , i was confronted with the same kind of anxious response .
they use their hands to write applications that improve government &apos;s work .
and these apps let us use our hands to improve our communities .
that might be to open up a hydrant , to hunt weeds , to turn a trash can with a thylacine .
and sure enough , we could have released these hydrants all the time , and many people do .
but these apps are like little digital memories , that we &apos;re not just consumers , and we &apos;re not just government consumers who are paying taxes and receiving services .
we are more than that , we are citizens .
and we &apos;re not going to improve government until we improve citizenship .
so the question i have for all of you here : when it comes to the big , important things that we need to do together , all together , are we just going to be a lot of voices , or are we going to be a lot of hands ?
thank you .
usually my role is to explain to people how wonderful the new technologies that are coming up are going to be , and i thought , because i &apos;m here with friends , i would tell you what i really think , and also try to look back and understand what &apos;s going on here , with these incredible jumps forward , which are so fast that we can barely keep up .
people said , &quot; are you not afraid to succeed ? &quot;
i &apos;m going to start by showing you a single , boring slide .
... could you show the slide for a moment .
this is a slide that i happened to choose from my folder .
i &apos;m not talking about the details of the slide , but rather the general shape .
this slide shows data from us about the performance of risc processors compared to the performance of a local area network .
what &apos;s interesting here is that this slide , like some other ones , which we often meet in our field , is a kind of semi-logarithmic curve .
in other words , every step here corresponds to the power scale .
and this is a novelty that we have to use this guy scale on semi-logarithmic curves in the field of technology .
something very strange is happening here .
this is basically what i &apos;m going to talk about here .
are you not afraid that the humiliation of a statement kills you ?
so , if you could turn on the lights again .
something more bright , because i &apos;m going to draw something on the paper here .
now , why do we draw graphs on semi-logarithmic curves in technology ?
the reason for that is , if i were to draw it on a normal curve , where , say , these are years , so the timeline of a species , and this is any kind of measure of the technology that i want to show with a graph , the graph is going to be silly .
they look like this .
and that doesn &apos;t tell us much .
now , if i want to record another technology , let &apos;s say a transportation technology , it would be very insensible on the semi-logarithmic scale , in the form of a flat line .
but if something like this happens , it changes the qualitative conditions .
so if the transportation technology continued as fast as the microprocessor technology , then we could get into a taxi tomorrow , and in 30 seconds we would be in tokyo .
but it doesn &apos;t go so fast .
are you not afraid you &apos;re going to follow this craftsmanship for your life and never come out of it , and that you &apos;re going to die on a scraped dreams -- your mouth filled with the bitter ashes of failure ?
this has never happened before in the history of technology development , this kind of recursive growth , where the scale of the scale is exponentially increasing every few years .
now the question i want to ask you is , if you look at these exponential curves , you see , they don &apos;t go on forever .
it &apos;s not possible that everything is evolving forever and forever as fast as it is now .
there are two options .
either it becomes a classic s-curve like this , until something completely new comes in , or it &apos;s going to happen here .
that &apos;s kind of it .
well , i &apos;m an optimist , so i think something like this is going to happen .
if that &apos;s true , that means we &apos;re right now in the middle of a transition .
we &apos;re here on this line , in a transition from the world to a new kind of world .
so the question that i want to ask , and i often ask myself , is , what is this new world going to be like ?
like that , you know .
what is this new state that the world is taking on slowly ?
because the transition seems to be very , very confusing when you &apos;re in the middle .
when i was a kid , the future was somewhere in the year 2000 , and people often talked about what would happen in the year 2000 .
now we have a conference here where people talk about the future , and you realize that the future is still in 2000 .
we &apos;re not going to go beyond that .
so in other words , the future has been shrinking by a year since i was in this world .
i think the reason for that is that we realize that something is going on .
the transition happens . we can all feel it .
and we know that it just doesn &apos;t make sense right now to try to look 30 or 50 years into the future , because everything will be so different that a simple utility of what we &apos;re doing now simply doesn &apos;t make sense .
now i want to talk about what this might be , this transition that we &apos;re in right now .
the answer -- the short answer to all these questions is , yes .
to do this , i &apos;m going to talk first about some other things that really don &apos;t have to do with technology or computers .
because i think in order to really understand this , we have to take a step back and look at the thing on a longer scale of time .
and that is , i want to look at this on the time-scale of life on earth .
i think the whole picture makes sense if you divide it into a few billion-dollar steps .
so let &apos;s go back , and that &apos;s 2.5 billion years , and the earth was a big , sterile stone clump with a lot of chemicals floating on it .
now , if you look at the way these chemicals were organized , it gives us a pretty good picture of how they did this .
i also think there are theories that are beginning to understand how everything started with rna , but i &apos;m going to tell you a simplified story about it , which is that at that time , there were little oil droplet sniffing around , which had different kinds of recipes for chemicals .
some of these oil droplet contains a special combination of chemicals that allowed them to integrate other chemicals from outside and grow .
all of the people who were like this started to divide .
these little oil droplet were the most primitive cell .
yeah , i &apos;m afraid of all these things .
but these oil droplet were not about living in today &apos;s sense , because each one of them was just a little , random recipe of chemicals .
and every time it divided , the chemicals in it have been distributed to a huge amount .
so each droplet was a little bit different .
in fact , the droplet , which had one for growth , had more optical composition , faster than others , and integrated more and more chemicals from the outside , and divided faster .
so these tends were to survive longer , and they were multipliing at a greater scale .
so this is just a very simple chemical form of life , but what &apos;s more interesting is when these droplet learned a trick about abstraction .
in any way that we don &apos;t quite understand yet , these droplet have learned the ability to write information down .
they &apos;ve learned to store the recipe of the cell as information , in a particular chemical form , which we call dna .
in other words , they found a way in this mindless , evolutionary way that allowed them to write down what they were made of , so that this information could be stored and copied .
the amazing thing about this is that this kind of information has remained the same thing over the period of 2.5 billion years that it &apos;s been created .
and i always had that .
in fact , the recipe for us , which is our genes , the exact same code and the same writing .
and that is , each being uses exactly the same letters and the same code .
we are so far that , just for the pleasure purposes , we can write something in this code ourselves .
we dance in the temple and we become god . &quot;
and i &apos;ve got 100 micrograms of a white sweater here , which i &apos;m trying to keep in the airports away from security staff .
there &apos;s -- what i &apos;ve done is , i &apos;ve taken this code -- the code is made up of normal letters that we use to symbolize -- and i &apos;ve written my business card on a piece of dna , and i &apos;ve amplified it 10 or 22 times .
so if somebody wants a hundred million copies of my business card , i have enough for everyone in this room and even for everyone in the world , and it &apos;s right here .
if i was actually an egoist , i would have written it on a virus and released it into the room .
so what &apos;s the next step ?
writing dna was an interesting step .
and that made these cells -- that made them happy for another billion years .
and i &apos;m afraid of a lot more things that nobody would know .
but then another very interesting step happened , where things became completely different , and that is that these cells started to communicate and exchange information , so that communities emerged from cells .
i don &apos;t know if you knew that , but bacteria can actually exchange their dna .
that &apos;s also why , for example , the consistency of antibiotics is growing .
some bacteria have figured out how to stay away from penicillin and have written this information together with other bacteria into the dna , and now we have a lot of bacteria that are resistant to penicillin because the bacteria communicate with each other .
this communications now allowed the reasons of communities that were in a certain sense in the same boat ; they were synertic .
so they either survived together , or they went together , which meant that if a community was successful , all the individuals in the community were repeated more and preferred by evolution .
the transition place is now where these communities were so close together that they decided to write the recipe for the whole community into a drawing chain on the dna .
and the next interesting phase took about another billion years .
at that point , we have multi-cellular communities , communities of many different cell types , which together acts as a single organism .
in fact , we &apos;re also such a multi-celled community .
like algae -- and other frightening things .
we have a lot of cells that are no longer on their own .
your skin cells are useless without heart cells , muscle cells , brain cells and so on .
so these communities began to evolve , so that the level at which evolution was no longer the single cell , but the whole cell community that we call organism .
the next step has now happened within these communities .
the cell communities began to abstract information again .
and they developed special structures that did nothing but process information within the organism .
and these are the neural structures .
so the neurons are the information processing system that these cell communities have built .
they started to train specialists in the community , special structures , which were responsible for learning , understanding and engaging in information .
and this was the brain and the nervous system of these communities .
but when it comes to writing , i &apos;ve been thinking about it recently , and i ask myself , why ?
this gave them an evolutionary advantage .
because at that point , an individual -- learning has now happened within the period of a single organism &apos;s lifetime , rather than that evolutionary period of time .
so an organism could learn , for example , not to eat a particular fruit because it tasted bad and made it sick , the last time he eaten it .
now , this could happen within the lifetime of a single organism , whereas it took hundreds of thousands of years before that , because this information had to be learned evolutionarily by the individuals who died because of this fruit , because these information processing structures were not there yet .
so the nervous system has the evolutionary process using these special information structures , because evolution could now happen within an individual .
she could take place within a time learning framework .
what happened after that is that the individual organisms found a way to communicate with each other .
so , for example , the most sophisticated version of this kind of communication that we know is human language .
it &apos;s a pretty amazing invention when you think about it .
i have a very complicated , messy and confused idea in my head .
is that reasonable ?
i &apos;m sitting here , and i &apos;m basically giving gruesome sounds of myself , hoping to create a kind of confused idea in your head that has a kind of similarity with my original idea .
so we take something very complicated , convert it into sound , a sequence of sound , and produce something very complicated in the head of others .
so this allows us now to work again as a unified organism .
and what we &apos;ve actually done , we , humanity , is we &apos;ve started to abstract .
we go through the same stages that multicellular organisms have gone through -- the abstraction of our methods of capturing data .
for example , the invention of language was a little step in this direction .
telephones , computers , video obstacles , cd-roms and so on are all our specialized mechanisms that we &apos;ve built in our community to be able to handle this information .
and it connects us all together to something that &apos;s much bigger , and it &apos;s also able to evolve faster than we have been .
so , evolution today can happen in the time period of microseconds .
you &apos;ve also seen tys &apos; little evolutionary example where he showed a little bit of evolution in the convolution program , right in front of your eyes .
is it logical that somebody should be expected to be afraid of doing the work they feel they &apos;re doing ?
so now we &apos;ve accelerated the timeline again .
the first steps of the story that i told you took a billion years per piece .
the next steps , like the nervous system and the brain , took several hundred million years .
then the next steps , like language and so on , took less than a million years .
and these next steps , like electronics , seem to take a few decades .
the process feeds itself and becomes , i think , auto-catalytic is the word for it -- when something increases its speed of change .
the more it changes , the faster it changes .
and i think that &apos;s what we &apos;re seeing here in this explosive curve .
we see the process that feeds itself .
i live professionally from building computers , and i know that i couldn &apos;t use the mechanism that i use to build computers without the recent advances in computer technology .
and what &apos;s going on with the creative enterprises is that they make us uncertain about each other &apos;s state of mind -- in a way that other profits don &apos;t ?
my current activity is to design objects with such a high complexity that it &apos;s impossible for me to design them in the traditional sense .
i don &apos;t know what every single transistor is doing in the connecting machine .
it has billions of them .
what i do instead , and what the designers do , thinking machines , is we think at a certain level of abstraction , give it to the machine , and the machine does something that goes beyond our ability , better and faster than we could ever do .
and she does it in part with methods that we don &apos;t even understand so far .
one of the things that &apos;s particularly interesting , and which i &apos;ve used a lot recently , is evolution itself .
and we &apos;re going to install an evolutionary process in the machine , which is going on in the microsecond area .
to give you an example , in the most extreme cases , we can create a program that &apos;s developed from random instructions .
we say , &quot; computers , please generate a hundred million randomly chosen sequences of instructions .
now , please execute all of these randomly chosen instructions , execute all the programs , and eventually choose those who are closest to my presentations . &quot;
my father , for example , was a chemist , and i can &apos;t remember a situation in his 40 years as a chemist , where he was asked if he was afraid to be a chemist .
so in other words , i first define what i want .
let &apos;s say i want to make numbers , that would be a simple example that i &apos;ve already used for it .
so find programs that are most likely to put in numbers .
of course , the chance of randomly chosen instructions is that by accident , they &apos;re going to make numbers , so none of the instructions are actually going to do this .
but one of them might be lucky to put two numbers in the right order .
now i say , &quot; computers , now take the 10 percent of the sequences that have come the closest to my spending .
hold them off , delete the rest .
now , reproduces all the rest of the people who have best sorted the numbers .
it &apos;s a recombination method , analog to reproduction . &quot;
take two programs , and they produce children through the exchange of their subroutines , and the kids inherit the characteristics of the subroutines of the two programs .
with your chemical blockage , john -- how do you do it ?
so now i have a new generation of programs that have come from combinations of programs that have come a little closer to the premises than others .
say , &quot; please repeat this process . &quot;
reevaluating it .
maybe bring in some mutations .
and try it again with another generation .
all these generations take just a few milliseconds .
and so i can run an evolution over millions of years in the computer within a few minutes , or in more complicated cases , a few hours .
finally , i get programs that can perfectly sort numbers .
in fact , these programs are so much more efficient than any program i could have ever written by hand .
so when i look at these programs , i can &apos;t tell you how they work .
it just didn &apos;t occur , you know ?
i tried to understand them .
they &apos;re confused and strange programs .
but they do the job .
i know , and i &apos;m sure you do the job , because you come from a series of hundreds of thousands of programs that did the job .
because their lives depended on whether they were doing the job right .
i used to sit in a 747 with marvin minsky , and he grabs a map and he says , &quot; oh look . look at that .
it says , &quot; this airplane is made up of hundreds of thousands of little bits that work together to make your flight safer . &apos; doesn &apos;t that make you more confident ? &quot;
we know that a process of development is not optimal when it becomes too complicated .
so we &apos;re starting to rely on computers for a process that &apos;s very different from classical engineering .
it allows us to produce things with much higher complexity than the normal methods would allow us to produce .
but to be fair -- the group of chemists over the centuries didn &apos;t get the call of alcohol people who are manic depressed .
and yet , we don &apos;t really understand the possibilities of this yet .
so , in a sense , technology is outlowing us .
we &apos;re now using these programs to make the computers much faster , so that we &apos;re able to do these processes even faster .
so there &apos;s a feedback going on .
it gets faster and faster , and i think that &apos;s why it seems so confusing .
and because you &apos;re obsessed , you &apos;re taken from the mind . how can you be harmed ?
because all these new technologies today feed themselves .
we take off .
we &apos;ve come to a point where the analog is at the time when cells have evolved into multi-cell organisms .
so we &apos;re the amoebas , and we can &apos;t quite figure out what the hell we &apos;re actually creating here .
we &apos;re in the middle of this transition point .
but we writers seem to have this kind of call , but not just the writers , but the creative of all the genres , it seems to have this reputation , mentally unstable .
but i really believe that something else comes after us .
i find it very tirelessly to say that we are the end product of evolution .
and i think all of us here are part of the creation of whatever comes next .
well , lunch is before , and i think i &apos;m going to stop here before i get chosen .
my story begins right here in rajasthan , about two years ago .
i was under the star sky in the desert with sufi singer mukhtiar ali .
we talked about how nothing has changed since the time of the ancient indian epos &quot; mahabharata . &quot;
if we wanted to travel indians then , we jumped into a car and swirled across the sky .
now we &apos;re doing this with airplanes .
at the time , when the great indian war prince had the arjuna thirst , he took a bow , shot into the floor and water stepped out .
all you have to do is look at the bitter death numbers of really great heads just from the 20th century alone , who died young and often by their own hand .
now we do this with drills and machines .
we came to the conclusion that magic and magic were replaced by machines .
that made me really sad .
i got a little scared of technology .
i was afraid that i could lose the ability to enjoy sunset without a camera and without a tweet to my friends .
i thought technology should make magic possible and not kill .
when i was a little girl , my grandfather gave me his little silver watch .
this piece of 50 years old technology became the most magical thing for me .
she became a golden access to a world of pirates and unfortunate ships and images in my imagination .
it seemed to me that our fancy clocks and cameras were dreaming of it .
and even those who didn &apos;t actually do suicid seemed to be really neglected by their talents .
they kept us from being inspired .
and so i went into the world of technology to see how i could use magic instead of killing .
when i was 16 , i started illustrating books .
when i saw the ipad , i saw it as a device for storytelling that readers around the world can connect .
it can know how we hold it .
it can know where we are .
it puts together images and text , animation , sound and touch .
storytelling uses more and more senses .
but what do we do with this ?
i &apos;m just going to khoya , an interactive ipad app .
norman mailer said just before he died in his last interview : every one of my books killed me a little bit further .
here it says , &quot; put your fingers on every light . &quot;
and so -- here it says , &quot; this box belongs ... &quot; i write my name .
and i &apos;m going to be a character in the book .
every once in a while , a letter falls down for me -- and the ipad knows where i live -- it &apos;s really addressed to me .
the kid in me is really excited about these possibilities .
i talked a lot about magic .
i don &apos;t mean magicians and dragons , but i mean the magic of childhood , the ideas that we all had as children .
fireflies in a glass , i always found quite exciting .
so you have to tip the ipad out here and release the fireflies .
and they illuminated the way through the rest of the book .
an extraordinary statement that you can make about your life &apos;s work .
another idea that fascinated me as a child is that a whole galaxy can put into a single marble .
and that &apos;s why every book and every world becomes a little marble that i &apos;m bringing here to the magical device in the device .
and this opens up a map .
fantasy books have always had maps , but these maps were static .
this map is growing and lighting and serving for orientation in the rest of the book .
it also shows up in other places of the book .
i &apos;m going in here .
it &apos;s also important for me to create something that is indian , but also very timely .
these are the apsaras .
we &apos;ve all heard of fees and nymps , but how many people outside india know their indian colleagues , the apsaras ?
but we don &apos;t even listen when we hear somebody say this , because we &apos;ve known this kind of statement for so long , somehow we &apos;ve been so internalized and collective acceptance that creativity and suffering have somehow come together and that art -- at the end -- always leads to the soul .
the poor apsaras were trapped in indras for thousands of years in an old book .
and we bring them back , in a contemporary story for children .
it &apos;s a story that deals with new issues , like the environmental crisis .
the environmental crisis , a big problem for the last 10 years , is that kids are sitting in their rooms , on their computers , without going out .
but now , with mobile technology , we can take our children into the natural world with their technology .
in an interaction of the book , you &apos;re sent to a search , and you have to go out and collect with the camera of the ipad images of natural objects .
as a child , i had collections of sticks , stones , boxes and shells .
somehow , kids don &apos;t do it anymore .
this childhood ritual is brought back . you have to go out to take a picture of a flower in a chapter and tag it .
in another chapter , you have to photograph and tag a piece of tree mri .
the question i &apos;d like to ask everyone here today is , is this idea completely okay for you ?
so you &apos;re actually creating a digital collection of photographs that you can then put online .
a kid in london shows the picture of a fox and says , &quot; oh , i &apos;ve seen a fox today . &quot;
a child in india says , &quot; i &apos;ve seen a monkey today . &quot;
this creates a kind of social network around a digital collection of photographs that you &apos;ve actually taken .
there are a number of ways of connecting magic to the world and technology .
in the next book , we &apos;re planning an interaction where you &apos;re using the video of the ipads , and through augmented reality , we &apos;re looking at an animation of 11 that appears on a plant in front of the house .
in one place , the screen is filled with leaves .
you have to make the sound of the wind , blow it away and read the rest of the book .
we all move to a world where technology &apos;s natural forces can get closer and closer to magic and technology .
we use the energy of the sun .
do you feel comfortable with that ? because with just one centimeter away , i don &apos;t feel comfortable with that notion at all .
we bring our kids and us closer to the natural world and to the magic , fun and the love of our childhood through the simple medium of a story .
thank you .
this is really an extraordinary honor for me .
i spend most of my time with people in research , prisons or death cells .
i spend most of my time with the social weakest in the social settlements and places where there &apos;s a lot of hopelessness .
to be here at ted , to see and to hear how stimulating that is , has given me a lot of power .
in the short time here , i realized one thing : ted has an identity .
you can say things here that are affecting the world .
and sometimes , when something comes to ted , it gets a meaning and force that it wouldn &apos;t have otherwise .
i say that because i think identity is very important .
i find them disgusting .
we &apos;ve seen some fantastic presentations .
i think we &apos;ve learned that the words of a teacher matter , but that the words of a dedicated teacher are particularly meaningful .
as a doctor , you can do good . but as a nurturing doctor , you can do more .
and that &apos;s why i want to talk about the power of identity .
i didn &apos;t learn this in my work , by the way , as a lawyer .
i learned this from my grandmother .
i became big in a family , a traditional african-american household dominated by a matriarch , and that matriarch was my grandmother .
she was a keyboard , strong woman , she had an impact .
she had the last word in every family argument .
it was also the origin of many arguments in our family .
and i find it dangerous . and i don &apos;t want to watch it taken over into the next century .
she was the daughter of a slave family .
their parents were born in the 1840s in virginia as slaves .
she was born in 1880 , and the experience of slavery shaped her worldview very strongly .
my grandmother was strong , but she was also loving .
when i met her as a young boy , she came up to me and hugged me .
look at these amazing demonstrations : voodoo acolyths in a trance-state that includes glowing coal without burn , an amazing illustration of the ability of the mind to influence the body in a way that holds it when it &apos;s placed in a state of extreme arousal .
she pushed me so hard that i could hardly breathe . then she let me go .
one or two hours later , when i met her , she came up to me and said , &quot; bryan , do you feel my hug ? &quot;
and when i said no , she hugged me again , and when i said , &quot; yes , &quot; she left me alone .
it was something that made it happen that you always wanted to be close to it .
the only problem with this was that she had 10 children .
i think it &apos;s better if we encourage our great creative lives .
my mother was the youngest of her 10 children .
sometimes , if i wanted to spend time with her , it was hard to get her attention .
my cousins were running around everywhere .
i remember , i must have been eight or nine , that i woke up one morning and went to the living room . all my cousins were running around .
my grandmother was sitting at the end of the room staring at me .
first of all , i thought that was a game .
i looked at her and smiled , but she looked very serious .
this went on for 15 or 20 minutes , and then she got up and she came over to me , and she took me by the hand , and she said , &quot; come , bryan . you and i , we have to talk . &quot;
i remember when it was yesterday .
i &apos;ll never forget it .
and i know definitely that for me -- in my situation -- it would be very dangerous to start to shrink this dark path of the guess , in a way , down -- especially the fact that i &apos;m in my career right now .
she took me out and said , &quot; bryan , i &apos;m going to tell you something , but you have to promise you don &apos;t tell it . &quot;
i said , &quot; promise , oma . &quot;
she said , &quot; honey ? &quot; i said , &quot; yes . &quot;
she sat me down , and she looked at me . she said , &quot; i want you to know that i &apos;ve seen you . &quot;
she said , &quot; i think you &apos;re special . &quot;
she said , &quot; i think you can do anything you want to do . &quot;
i &apos;ll never forget that .
then she said , &quot; you just have to promise me three things , bryan . &quot;
i said , &quot; ok , oma . &quot;
she said , &quot; first of all , i promise you will always love your mom . &quot;
that means -- look , i &apos;m pretty young . i &apos;m only about 40 years old .
she said , &quot; your mom is my baby , and you have to promise you &apos;re always going to take care of her . &quot;
i adored my mother , so i said , &quot; yes , oma , i &apos;m going to do that . &quot;
and then she said , &quot; next , i promise you will always do the right thing , &quot; even though it &apos;s hard to do the right thing . &quot;
i thought , &quot; yeah , oma . i promise . &quot;
and finally , she said , &quot; the last thing you have to promise me is , &quot; you will never drink alcohol . &quot;
well , i was nine years old , and so i said , &quot; yes , oma . i promise . &quot;
i grew up on the land , in the old , rural south , and i have a brother who is a year older and a year younger sister .
when i was about 14 or 15 , one day my brother came home and brought this sixpack beer with me and my sister and i went and went to the forest with us .
we were silly around there just as much as we were .
then he took a swallow of beer and offered one to my sister , and she accepted , and then they offered me one .
i have maybe another 40 years of work in me .
i said , &quot; no , no , no . ok . just do it . i don &apos;t want a beer . &quot;
my brother said , &quot; well , let &apos;s do this , you &apos;re doing everything else we do today .
i had something , your sister had something . go ahead and drink a beer . &quot;
i said , &quot; i don &apos;t want to . just do it . just do it . &quot;
my brother stared at me .
he said , &quot; well , what &apos;s going on with you ? let &apos;s drink something . &quot;
and then he looked me in the face and he said , &quot; oh no , you don &apos;t still do crazy about the grandmother ? &quot;
i said , &quot; what are you talking about ? &quot;
he said , &quot; oma tells all the grandchildren that they are special . &quot;
i was devastated .
and it &apos;s extremely likely that everything i &apos;m going to write from now on in the world is evaluated as the work that came after my last book &apos;s degraded success , right ?
i &apos;m going to tell you something .
i probably shouldn &apos;t do that .
this may be broadcast publicly .
i &apos;m 52 years old , and i &apos;m saying i &apos;ve never drunk a drop of alcohol .
i &apos;m not saying that because i think it &apos;s virtuous . i say that because identity means power .
if we create the right kind of identity , we can tell the people around us things that they don &apos;t believe first .
we can get them to do things that they thought they couldn &apos;t do .
of course , my grandmother would say they &apos;re special .
my grandfather was in jail during the prohibition .
my uncles died of alcohol induced diseases .
i say it straight , because we &apos;re all kind of friends here -- it &apos;s very likely that my greatest success is behind me .
and she believed that these were the topics that we had to take care of .
i tried to say something about our justice system .
this country is different from 40 years ago .
in 1972 , 300,000 people were in prison and in jail .
today , it &apos;s 2.3 million .
the united states today has the highest incarceration rate in the world .
seven million people rely on currency or on conditional punishment .
i think mass incarceration has fundamentally changed our world .
in social weak and black parts of the population , there is despair and hopelessness because of these changes .
one out of three male black men between 18 and 30 is in prison , in the prison , in the enforcement , or in the condition of condition .
oh , jesus , what a thought !
in urban communities all over the country -- from los angeles to philadelphia , baltimore to washington -- 50 to 60 percent of all the black young men are either in prison , in prison , in permission , or in conditional punishment .
but our system is not only shaped by questions that have to do with racism , but it &apos;s also created by poverty .
we have a justice system in this country that you treat much better if you &apos;re rich and guilty than poor and innocent .
wealth , not debt , affects the result .
and yet , we seem to be quite happy with this .
a politics of fear and anger has convinced us that these problems are not our problems .
we &apos;ve lost touch .
i think that &apos;s interesting .
there are some very interesting developments .
my home state of alabama constantly pulls them the right to vote when they &apos;re convicted .
these are the kind of thoughts that can get someone to start drinking gin at 9 o &apos;clock in the morning , and i don &apos;t want that .
here and today in alabama , 34 percent of the male black population have constantly lost their voting right .
we predict that in 10 years , the percentage of the recognition of civil rights will be as high as before the election law administration .
the silence is earth-numbing .
i represent children .
many of my clients are very young .
the united states of america is the only country in the world that convicts three-year-olds to death in prison .
in this country , we have life penalty for children with no conditional punishment .
we already have a lot of procedures .
the only country in the world .
i represent people in death cells .
i &apos;d rather continue to do this work that i love .
the death penalty question is an interesting question .
we think because it &apos;s taught us that the real question is : did a human deserve to die for a crime of him ?
this is a very sensitive question .
but you can think about it differently , depending on how we see our identity .
the other view is not : did anybody deserve death for a crime , but : did we deserve to kill ?
i think that &apos;s fascinating .
the death penalty in america is defined by error .
nine people that we executed , one that we found for innocent , that was deployed and released from the death cell .
an amazing error rate . one in nine innocent .
i think that &apos;s fascinating .
so the question is : how ?
we would never let anyone fly on an airplane if for nine planes that take off , one falls down .
but somehow we can get rid of this problem .
it &apos;s not our problem .
well , of all the people i &apos;ve met , the sierra nevada de santa marta in northern colombia , the most extraordinary .
it &apos;s not our burden .
it &apos;s not our fight .
i &apos;m talking a lot about these questions .
i &apos;m talking about race and the question of whether we &apos;re right to kill .
and it &apos;s exciting because i teach my students african-american history . i &apos;m talking about slavery .
i &apos;m talking about terrorism , the time at the end of reconstruction , to the beginning of world war ii .
we don &apos;t really know a lot about it .
after some time of reflection , it seems to me that in order to continue writing , i have to design a kind of protective psychological construct .
but for the african-american in this country , it was a time of terror .
in many areas , people had to be afraid of lynchmobs .
or before bombs .
it was the fear of terror that shaped their lives .
these older people are now coming to me and saying , &quot; mr , stevenson , you &apos;re talking , you &apos;re giving talks . you &apos;re telling people to stop saying we have it for the first time in our nation &apos;s history of terrorism : after 9 / 11 . &quot;
they say , &quot; no -- tell people we grew up with this . &quot;
and of course , after terrorism , the rapid rendering and decades of rapid motivated submission and apartheid came .
and yet , there is a dynamic in our country -- we don &apos;t like to talk about our problems .
we don &apos;t like to talk about our story .
and that &apos;s why we don &apos;t really understand what our actions are in the historical context .
somehow , from now on , i have to find a way to keep a safe distance between me and my very natural climb about what the reaction to the writing is going to be .
we &apos;re constantly bumping into each other .
we &apos;re always creating new tensions and conflicts .
it &apos;s hard for us to talk about race , and i think that &apos;s because we &apos;re not willing to approach the process of truth and reconciliation .
in south africa , people have understood that the race is not to overcome without the willingness to truth and reconciliation .
even after the genocide in rwanda , there was this willingness , but not in our country .
i gave some talks in germany about the death penalty .
it was fascinating , because one of the scientists stood up after my talk and said , &quot; you know , it &apos;s deeply disturbing to hear you talk like this . &quot;
he said , &quot; there is no death penalty in germany .
and of course , they can never be in germany . &quot;
it became completely silent . then a woman said , &quot; with our story , it &apos;s impossible that we will ever speak for the systematic killing of people again .
as i &apos;ve been looking for models last year to do this , i &apos;ve also been looking for past , and i &apos;ve been trying to find other societies to see if they might have better or more sensible ideas about this than we can help to deal with the creative risks that are connected to creativity .
it would be unconscious to be aware and targeted by us . &quot;
i thought about it .
how it would feel to live in a world where the german state made people go , especially if there were a lot of jews under it .
it would be intolerable .
it would be mindless .
and yet , here in this country , in the states of the old south , we &apos;re setting people up -- here &apos;s the risk of being convicted of death , 11 times higher when the victim is white than when it &apos;s black . 22 times higher when it &apos;s complained black and the victim knows -- in the same states where the earth is borrowing the body .
and yet , there &apos;s this mental disconnect .
i think our identity is threatened .
but what &apos;s interesting is the unique pitch of the song , the rhythm of dance in every culture .
if we don &apos;t deal with these difficult issues , then the positive and wonderful things are also affected .
we love innovation .
this search led me to the old greece and the old rome .
we love technology and creativity .
we love entertainment .
but ultimately , these realities are being transmitted by suffering , abuse , composition , boundary .
i think it seems important to unite both .
because ultimately , we &apos;re talking about how we need more hope , more engagement , more commitment , to be able to be in a complex world .
for me , the time to spend , to think and to talk about the poor , the disadvantaged , the ones that will never be at ted .
but think in a way that is integrated into our own lives .
we all have to believe at the end of the day things that we can &apos;t see .
we do . as rational as we are , as much as we appreciate intellect .
innovation , creativity , and development , it &apos;s not just coming from our heads .
please follow me , because the circle will close again .
they come from ideas that are driven by the belief in our hearts .
it &apos;s this head-heart connection that i think drives us not only to be open to all the bright and exciting things , but also for the dark and problematic .
vaclav havel , the great chief politician , once said .
&quot; when we fought against oppression in eastern europe , we wanted everything , but what we needed most was hope , a mental orientation , the willingness to be sometimes in hopeless places and witness . &quot;
this mental orientation is the core of what i think the ted communities have to be involved in .
there is no limitation to technology and design that allows us to be fully human , as long as we don &apos;t have eyes and ears for poverty , limitation and injustice .
i want to warn you . this kind of identity requires a lot more of us than if we didn &apos;t care about it .
it &apos;s going to touch them deeply .
as a young lawyer , i had the great privilege of meeting pink parks .
woman parks kept coming back to montgomery , where she met two of her oldest friends , these older women , johnnie carr , who had organized the montgomery bus boycott -- an incredible african-american -- and virginia durr , a white man , clifford durr , dr. king .
but in ancient greece and rome , people didn &apos;t believe that creativity comes from people , ok ?
so these women met , and they just talked .
occasionally , woman carr called me up and said , &quot; bryan , ms. parks comes to the city . we want to talk .
do you want to come in and listen ? &quot;
and i said , &quot; yes , very much . &quot;
she said , &quot; and what are you going to do if you &apos;re here ? &quot;
i said , &quot; i &apos;m going to listen . &quot;
and i went over and just listened to it .
it was always so inspiring , so frightening .
i sat there one day , and i listened to these women , and after a few hours , ms. parks turned to me and said , &quot; well , bryan , tell me what the initiative is for the same right . &quot;
what are you trying to do ? &quot;
they believed that creativity was a kind of divine divinity that comes from a distant , unknown source to people -- for unexplained , unknown reasons .
i started with my usual talk .
i said , &quot; we &apos;re trying to do something about injustice .
wr wants to help people who have been innocent convicted .
we want to fight bias and discrimination in the crimination system .
we want to eliminate lifelong sentences with no conditional punishment for children .
we want to do something about the death penalty .
we want to reduce the number of prisoners .
we want to eliminate mass incarceration . &quot;
i gave my usual talk , and after that , she looked at me and said , &quot; hmm . mhmm . mhmm . &quot;
she said , &quot; that &apos;s going to make you very , very tired . &quot;
the greeks called these divine dienereal spirits of creativity demons .
then , woman carr leaned to me , put a finger on my face and said , &quot; and that &apos;s why you have to be very , very brave . &quot;
and that &apos;s why i think the ted community should be braver .
we need to find ways to address these challenges : these problems , this suffering .
because ultimately , our humanity depends on our humanity .
in my work , i learned very simple things .
i learned a couple of very simple things .
that we &apos;re all more than the worst we &apos;ve ever done .
i think that &apos;s true for every human on the planet .
when someone lies , they &apos;re not just a liar .
if somebody takes something they don &apos;t belong to , they &apos;re not just a thief .
he was known by socrates that he believed he had a demonstrator who shared wisdom from a farther distance .
even if you kill someone , it &apos;s not just a murderer .
and because it is , there is a fundamental human dignity that has to respect the law .
i also believe that in many parts of this country , and certainly in many parts of the world , the opposite of poverty is not wealth .
i don &apos;t think so .
i believe that in too many places , the opposite of poverty is justice .
and finally , i think even though it &apos;s so dramatic , so beautiful and inspiring , and so stimulating , at the end of the day , we &apos;re not measured by our technology , not in the things that we &apos;re developing , not in our intellect and our minds .
finally , a society is not measured by how they treat their rich and powerful and privileged , but by how they deal with the poor , the convicted , the incarcerated .
because it &apos;s only in this context that we begin to understand the truly amazing things that make us .
sometimes i lose the balance . i end up with a story .
sometimes i push too much .
the romans had the same idea , called this kind of bodily creative mind a genius .
i &apos;m getting tired of , like all of us .
sometimes these ideas rush ahead of our thinking in a very important way .
i represent these kids who were convicted of very hard punishment .
i go to the study prison and visit a client who may be 13 or 14 years old , and who &apos;s supposed to be in court as an adult .
descendants of the ancient tyrannical civilization , inhabiting the caribbean coastal plain of colombia , and as a result of the conquest , this people moved back into an isolated volcanic massively , rising over the caribbean coastal plain .
then i wonder : how could this happen ?
how can a judge turn somebody into something they &apos;re not ?
the judge looks at him as an adult , but i see a child .
one night , i stayed up too long , and i thought , oh my god , if a judge can turn us into something else , then he must have magicians .
right , bryan , the judge has magicians .
you should also wish for them .
that &apos;s great . the romans didn &apos;t really think that a genius was a particularly smart individual .
and because it was late , and i couldn &apos;t really think right , i started working on a contract .
i had a 14-year-old , poor black boy as a client .
and i started with this assignment , and the headline said , &quot; assignment to treat my poor , 14-year-old black clients like a privileged , white , 75-year-old top manager . &quot;
in my assignment , i explained that misbehavior of the state sanctuary and the police and the attitudes were considerable .
there was a crazy line about the fact that there &apos;s nothing wrong in this country , that there &apos;s only misbehavior .
the next morning , i woke up and i didn &apos;t know if i had just dreamed of this crazy assignment or actually written it .
and to my apprehension , i had not only written him , but also sent him to the court .
a few months ago , and i had just forgotten everything .
but finally , i decided , my god , i have to go to the court and do this crazy case .
i got in the car and was really overwhelmed -- overwhelmed .
they believed that a genius was this kind of magical divine creature that was believed to be living in literally the walls of an artist -- sort of like dobby , the house 11 -- that would come out and help the artist do the work , and make the result of the work .
so i went to the court .
and i thought , this is going to be so hard , so painful .
finally , i got out of my car and went up the staircase to the court .
when i got up the staircase to the court , there was an elderly , black man , the janitor in the court .
when he saw me , he came over to me and he said , &quot; who are you ? &quot;
i said , &quot; i &apos;m a lawyer . &quot; he said , &quot; you &apos;re a lawyer ? &quot; i said , &quot; yes . &quot;
he came to me and hugged me .
then he whispered into my ear .
he said , &quot; i &apos;m so proud of you . &quot;
and i have to say , it gave me power .
that &apos;s brilliant -- there it is , there &apos;s the distance i talked about -- the psychological construct that protects you from the consequences of your work .
it touched something deeply deep inside me , identity , the ability of each individual to contribute to a community , to a perspective of hope .
well , i entered the courthouse .
as soon as the judge saw me .
he said , &quot; mr. stevenson , did you make this crazy assignment ? &quot;
i said , &quot; yes . &quot; and then we started discussing .
more and more people came in just because they were angry .
that i had written these crazy things .
police officers came in and employed state lawyers and office workers .
in the handouts , the courthouse was filled with people who were angry that we were talking about skin color , about poverty , about inequality .
from my eye angle , i saw the janitor go up and down .
and everybody knew it worked that way , right ?
he kept looking through the window , and he could hear the whole tohuwabohu .
he went up and down .
finally , this older black man came into the courthouse with a very concerned facial recruit and sat right behind me , almost on the defense bank .
ten minutes later , the judge announced a break .
during the break , a police officer came in , and it was disturbing that the janitor was in the courtroom .
this deputy ran over to the older black .
he said , &quot; jimmy , what do you do in the courtroom ? &quot;
the older black man stood up . he looked at the deputy , then he looked at me , and he said , &quot; i &apos;ve come here to tell this young man , don &apos;t lose the goal from the eyes . don &apos;t give up . &quot;
i came to ted because i think many of you have understood that the moral pendulum of the universe is far outweighing , but that it &apos;s increasing in justice .
that we as humans are not completely designed until we care about human rights and basic values .
the artist of aging was protected from certain things like , for example , too much narcissism , right ?
that all of our survival is linked to the survival of each individual .
that we need to connect our visions of technology and design , of entertainment and creativity with humanity , compassion and justice .
and most of all , those of you who see this as well , i just want to say : don &apos;t lose the goal from your eyes . don &apos;t give up .
you &apos;ve seen , in this audience , this community , an obvious wish , and you &apos;ve heard about helping them and doing something .
what else can we do ?
bryan stevenson : well , there are opportunities everywhere
if you live in california , there &apos;s a folk decision in this spring , which is about actually doing a effort to do something about the money stream that otherwise flows into the politics of punishment .
for example , in california , in the next five years , you &apos;re going to spend a billion dollars on death penalty , a billion dollars .
and yet , 46 percent of all the kill delicious doesn &apos;t end with a arrest .
56 percent of rape cases are not on trial .
if your work was brilliant , you wouldn &apos;t get rid of everything for you , everyone knew that you had this bodily genius that helped you .
here &apos;s the opportunity to do something .
this is going to suggest that the money is going to invest in more security forces and security .
i think there are opportunities everywhere .
over the last three decades , the crime rate in america has declined immensely .
this fact is often put into a context with the increased incarceration numbers .
what would you say to someone who believes that ?
well , in fact , the number of violent crimes has not changed very much .
most of the mass incarceration in this country was not really in the class of violent crime .
it was the misguided crossroads against drugs .
so the dramatic high numbers come in the prisoners .
if your work flew -- not entirely your fault , right ?
we &apos;ve got to tear down from the rhetoric of punishment .
now we have &quot; three inhibitors &quot; laws that bring people behind the grid forever , for a bicycle theft , for the theft of low levels of good , rather than forcing them to give back to the victims .
i think we need to do more to help people who have become victims of a criminal , not less .
and i think our current philosophy of punishment doesn &apos;t help anybody .
i think that &apos;s what we need to change .
bryan , you &apos;ve really got a string to vibrate here .
they are an inspiring personality .
thank you for being at ted . thank you very much .
bin laden &apos;s death takes an increased risk of risk of risk .
speaker 2 : famine in somalia . speaker 3 : pepper spray of police .
everybody knew your genius was a little bit of a fame .
bad cartels . speaker 5 : dangerous cruise ships .
6 : social decline . speaker 7 : 65 dead .
speaker 8 : tsunami warning . speaker 9 : cyber-attacks
different speakers : drug war . weapons of mass destruction . tornado .
recession . still . doomsday . egypt . syria .
crisis . death . disaster .
oh my god .
so these are just a few of the clips that i &apos;ve collected over the last six months -- it could have been the last six days , or the last six years .
the fact is that the media preferences to show us negative subjects , because our minds pay attention to these very topics .
and there &apos;s also a very good reason for this .
so people in the west have thought about creativity for a really long time .
every second every day , our senses are starting to absorb much more information than our brains can ever process .
and because we have nothing more important than our survival , the first stop for all the information is part of our temporal lobe , the amygdala .
so the amygdala is our early warning system , our driving detector .
it sorts and goes through all the information in the search for any indication of danger in our environment .
so when we see the news , we prefer to look for negative news .
and the old adage , &quot; when it bleeds , the demand &quot; is very true .
now , with all our digital devices , which give us seven days a week , 24 hours a day , all these negative messages , it &apos;s not a miracle that we &apos;re pessimistic .
it &apos;s not a miracle that everybody thinks the world is getting worse and worse .
but maybe that &apos;s not the case .
maybe that &apos;s the reality .
and then the renaissance came and everything changed . we had this big idea . and this big idea was : let &apos;s put the human individual at the center of the universe -- all the gods and mysteries . and there &apos;s no room for mystical creatures to take the commands from divine .
perhaps the tremendous progress we &apos;ve made in the last century is accelerating through a series of forces , so strong that we will be able to create a world of abundance in the next three decades .
well , i &apos;m not saying that we don &apos;t have big problems -- climate crisis , biodiversity loss , water and energy problems -- we already have them .
and as humans , we &apos;re much better at looking at problems in the long run , but ultimately overcoming them .
let &apos;s look at what we &apos;ve achieved in the last century so that we can anticipate the development .
in a bloodshed continent , these people were the only people who were never conquered by the spaniards .
in the last 100 years , the average life expectancy has more than doubled , which has tripled inflation of the average income of the world &apos;s population has tripled .
child mortality has dropped by a tenth .
in addition , the food , electricity and transportation and communication costs have been reduced by many times .
steve pinker has shown us that we are living in a very peaceful time in human history right now .
and according to charles kenny , the literacy rate has gone from 25 percent to 80 percent in the last 130 years .
we live in a really extraordinary time .
it &apos;s the beginning of rational humanism , and people started to believe that creativity came from their own individual .
and a lot of people forget this .
and we keep increasing our expectations all the time .
in fact , we &apos;ve redefined poverty .
remember that a large percentage of americans living under the poverty line have access to electricity , water , toilets , refrigerators , television , mobile phones , air conditioning and cars .
the richest capitalists in the last century , the world &apos;s imperators , could never have dreamed of such luxury goods .
the basis of a lot of this is technology , and these are growing expotentially .
my good friend ray kurzweil has shown us that every tool that becomes information technology will make a big jump on the curve of moore &apos;s law , and the price performance quotient doubles every 12 to 24 months .
that &apos;s why the mobile phone in your pocket costs about a million times less and is thousands of times faster than a supercomputer from the &apos; 70s .
now look at this curve .
this is moore &apos;s law for the last hundred years .
for the first time in history , people call this genius or this artist -- instead of having a genius .
notice two things about this curve .
first , how smooth it is -- in good times or in bad times , war or peace , recession , depression and high conjuncture .
this is the result of faster computers building faster computers .
it doesn &apos;t slow down for any of our big problems .
and also , despite their logarithmic trajectory on the left , it &apos;s going upward .
so the growth rate itself is accelerating .
and on this curve , on the back of moore &apos;s law , we find a series of extraordinary technologies that are available to everyone .
&quot; cloud-computing , &quot; what my friends at autodesk call infinite-computing , &quot; sensors and networks , robots , 3d printers that allow my personal production to democratize on our planet , synthetic biology , fuels , vaccines and food , digital medicine , nano-materials and artificial intelligence .
how many of you have seen the victory of ibm &apos;s supercomputer watson at risk ?
this was grandiose .
i have to tell you , i think that was a big mistake .
i went through the newspapers and looked for the best headlines i could find .
i love this one : &quot; watson constrains human opponents . &quot;
&quot; risk &quot; is not a simple game .
it &apos;s about understanding the nuances of language .
imagine that this artificial intelligence is available to every mobile phone owner .
four years ago , ray kurzweil and i started a new university here at ted called singularity university .
we teach our students all these technologies , with special focus on how they can be used to solve the big challenges of humanity .
and every year we ask the students to create companies , products and services that can positively affect the lives of billions of people in a decade .
think about how a group of students today can impact the lives of billions of people .
30 years ago , this would have been ridiculous .
you know ? i think allowing a mere person to think he or she &apos;s like the vessel , like the basin and the essence and the source of all divine , creative , unknown , infinite mysteries is a little too much responsibility to inhabit a fragile , human psyche .
we can now point to dozens of companies that have done this .
when i think about creating abundance , i don &apos;t mean a life of luxury for everyone on the planet ; it &apos;s about creating a life of possibilities .
it &apos;s about creating abundance from scarce goods .
because scarcity is contextual , and technology is a resource liberating force .
here &apos;s an example .
this is napoleon iiiii &apos;s story in the middle of the 18th century .
he &apos;s the guy on the left .
he invited the king of siam to dinner .
napoleon &apos;s soldiers got silver bribe , napoleon itself got gold bribe .
but the king of siam got aluminum bribe .
it &apos;s like asking someone to swallow the sun .
aluminum was the most valuable metal on the planet at the time , more valuable than gold and plate .
this is why the dome of the tone monument was made out of aluminum .
although aluminum takes 8.3 percent of the earth &apos;s mass , it doesn &apos;t seem like a pure metal .
it &apos;s connected by oxygen and silicon .
but then the technology of electrolysis was developed and made aluminum production so cheap that we use it with our throwaway mentality .
then let &apos;s project this analogy into the future .
we think of energy scarcity today .
ladies and gentlemen , we live on a planet filled with 5,000-times more energy than we use every year .
16 terawatts of energy are bouncing on the surface of the earth every 88 minutes .
it &apos;s not scarcity , the problem is accessibility .
this disfigures and distorts whole egos , and it creates all these unreachable expectations of success .
and there &apos;s good news .
this year , they were able to reduce the cost of solar power in india to 50 percent of the same electricity -- 8.8 rupees compared to 17 rupees .
the cost of solar power fell 50 percent last year .
last month , this has published a study that shows that by the end of this decade , solar is going to cost six cents a kwh , compared to 15 cents a national average .
and if we have an energy overload , we will also have water in the abundance .
let &apos;s talk about water wars .
do you remember when carl sagan turned the voyager spacecraft back to earth in 1990 , when it passed saturn ?
he took a famous photograph . what was it ?
&quot; a pale blue dot . &quot;
because we live on a planet of water .
i think this success pressure has devastated our artists for the last 500 years .
we live on a planet that &apos;s 70 percent covered with water .
yes , it &apos;s 97.5 percent saltwater , two percent are hurried , and we &apos;re fighting by 0.5 percent of the water on the planet , but there &apos;s also hope .
and there are new technologies , not in 10 or 20 years , but now .
these are new nanotechnology on the way , nano-materials .
and from a conversation this morning with dean kaman , one of the innovators of the do it yourself , i want to share with you -- he gave me permission -- his engineering , which is called &quot; slingshot , &quot; and which many of you may have heard of . it &apos;s the size of a refrigerator in the dorm home .
it can produce a thousand liters of clean drinking water a day from different sources -- whether it &apos;s saltwater , polluted water , latrine -- and all that for less than two cents a gallon .
the head of coca-cola has just agreed to launch a big test project with a hundred units in developing countries .
and if everything goes well , and i &apos;m very confident , coca-cola will apply this technology globally in 206 countries around the planet .
this is technological innovation that we have today .
and we &apos;ve also seen this in mobile phones .
and if that &apos;s true -- and i think it &apos;s true -- is the question .
oh my goodness , we &apos;re going to reach the 70 percent coverage of mobile phones in the developing world by the end of 2013 .
just remember that a masai warrior with a cell phone in the middle of kenya has a better mobile communication than president reagan 25 years ago .
and if you &apos;re looking for your smartphone on google , you have more access to knowledge and information than president clinton did 15 years ago .
they live in a world that has information and communication in abundance , as no one could have predicted .
and it &apos;s even better , the things that you and i spent several thousand dollars on -- gps , hd video and photograph , libraries of books and music , technology for medical diagnostics -- are literally now being dematerialized and cheaper in your cell phone .
and the best part is perhaps what we &apos;re expecting in health .
last month , i had the pleasure of announcing the so-called &quot; $ 10 million qualcomm tricorder x prize . &quot;
we challenge teams around the world to connect all these technologies to each other in a mobile phone so that you can talk to the device , because it &apos;s equipped with ai , you can test cleaners or your blood values .
and in order to win , the device has to make a better diagnosis than a team of highly qualified doctors .
imagine this device , right in the middle of a developing country , where there are no doctors , but 25 percent of the burden of disease and 1.3 percent of the health care staff .
can we change it ?
if this device sequences a rnage or dna virus that &apos;s not known , it calls the ministry of health and prevents a pandemic from their outbreak .
but now the biggest force that will lead us to a world of abundance .
i call them &quot; the coming billion . &quot;
the white lines are population .
we just passed the 7-billion-dollar brand .
and just by the way , the biggest insurance against a population explosion is a better education and nutrition around the world .
in 2010 , we had just connected under two billion people online .
by 2020 , we &apos;re going to go from two billion internet users .
three billion new minds that we &apos;ve never heard of before will join the global communications .
what do these people need ?
maybe an ancient understanding of the relationship between people and the mystery of creative .
what are they going to consume ? what are they going to desire ?
and instead of economic gridlock , i see one of the biggest economic shots in history .
these people represent several trillion dollars that will flow into the global economy .
and they &apos;re going to be healthier by using the tricoder , and they &apos;re going to be better trained by the khan academy , and by doing so , they &apos;re going to have the opportunity to use 3d printer and infinite computing and so much more productive than ever before .
to this day , they are governed by a ritual priesthood , but the education for priesthood is very extraordinary .
so what can three billion growing , healthy , educated , productive members of the human community bring us ?
what about a sentence of new , never heard before .
what about giving the oppressed , wherever you are , a voice to pay attention and to create change for the first time ?
what are these three billion people going to bring in ?
what about contributions that we can &apos;t even predict ?
one of the things that i learned from the x prize is that small teams that are motivated by passion and focus can create extraordinary things , things that big businesses and governments could only create in the past .
maybe not .
i want to end with a story that really got me excited .
there &apos;s a program that some people might know .
it &apos;s a game called foldit .
it was developed at the university of washington in seattle .
and it &apos;s a game where people can take a sequence of amino acids to study how the protein will evolve .
according to its behavior , we can predict the structure and function .
and this is very important in medical research .
so far , this has been a problem for supercomputers .
and this game was played by university professors and so on .
and there are now hundreds of thousands of people playing the game online .
maybe we can &apos;t just eradicate the thought from 500 years of rational humanism in an 18-minute talk .
and it showed that today , the human pattern recognition is better than the best supercomputers .
and when these people came and looked at who &apos;s the best protein folder in the world , this was not a mit professor , nor a caltech student , it was somebody from england , manchester , a woman who worked during the day as a assistant of the business director in a rehab clinic and was the best protein orderer in the world at night .
ladies and gentlemen , what gives me enormous confidence in our future , is that we now have more power than individuals to face the great challenges of our planet .
we have access to tools with exponential technology .
we have the passion of a diy innovator .
we have the capital of techno-philanthropy .
and we have three billion new heads that we can work with online to address the new challenges , and to do what is necessary .
we expect a couple of extraordinary decades .
thank you .
i think we need to do something about a changing piece of medical culture .
and there are certainly people in this audience who would sign up really legitimate scientific doubt about the idea of -- basically -- fees that follow people and apply feathers to their projects and so on .
and i think it starts with a medical doctor , and that &apos;s me .
and maybe i &apos;ve been in the business for a long time , so that i can allow myself to give up a piece of my own wrong prestige to make this happen .
but before i get to the actual theme of my talk , let &apos;s start with a little baseball .
hey , why not ?
we &apos;re close to the seasonist and we &apos;re moving towards the world championship .
we all love baseball , right ?
baseball is full of great statistics .
and there are hundreds of them .
&quot; moneyball &quot; appears soon , and it turns out to be statistics , and to use it to make a great baseball team .
i &apos;m going to refer to a statistic that i hope most of you have heard of .
i &apos;m probably not going to be able to take all of you on this journey .
it &apos;s the average power of the bat .
we &apos;re talking about a 300 when a bat hits 300 .
that means that the player is surely beating three out of 10 beats .
that means hitting the ball out , it comes up , it &apos;s not caught , and whoever tried to throw the ball to the first base , didn &apos;t do it in time , and the runner was safe .
three out of 10 .
do you know how to call a 3,000 in major league baseball ?
well , really good , maybe a single star .
do you know what you call a 4,00ter ?
this is somebody who , by the way , hits probably four out of 10 .
legendary -- like ted williams legendary -- the last major league baseball player who met over 400 times during a regular season .
but the question i want to throw up is : why not ?
let &apos;s go back to my medical world , where i feel a lot more comfortable , or maybe a little less comfortable after i talked to you about it .
suppose you have a blindness , and you &apos;re transferred to an operator whose average performance is 400 in terms of blindness .
somehow , it doesn &apos;t work , right ?
suppose you live in a particular remote area , and you have a beloved person with clogged heart disease , and your doctor overwhelms it to a cardiologist whose average performance is in fake depiction at 200 .
but , you know what ?
she &apos;s much better this year . she &apos;s on the rising branch .
and she &apos;s beating a 257 .
somehow , it doesn &apos;t work .
but i &apos;m going to ask you a question .
what do you think the average performance of a cardiologist or a nurse or an orthopedic , should be a birthday worker , a rescue assistant ?
why not think about it that way ?
1,000 , very good .
the truth is that nobody in all of medicine knows what a good surgeon or doctor or rescue assistant should be .
but what we &apos;re doing is we &apos;re sending each and every one of them , including me , into the world with the claim to be perfect .
never make a mistake , but nobody cares about the details of how to do this .
and that &apos;s the message i took in medical school .
i was a compulsive student .
in high school , a fellow student once said that brian goldman was going to learn for a blood test .
and that &apos;s what it was .
and i learned in my little dairy class in the nurse residence at the toronto general hospital , far from here .
i memorized everything .
because it makes as much sense as anything else that i &apos;ve heard about when it comes to explaining the absolutely insane mobility of the creative process .
in my anatomic lecture , i learned the origins and extenders of every muscle , every branch of every artery that takes away from the aorta , obscure and ordinary differential diagnosis .
i even knew the differential diagnosis to classify the renal tubula azidose .
and i was collecting more and more knowledge all the time .
and i was good , i graduated with cum laude .
and i left medical school with the impression that if i knew everything , and i knew everything , or at least as much as possible , as close to complete as possible , that i was immune to making mistakes .
and it worked for a while , until i met a woman printer .
i was resistant to a teaching hospital here in toronto as a woman to me in the emergency department of the hospital .
at that point , i was proven to the cardiological layer in the cardiology service .
and it was my assignment when the emergency staff was looking for kardiological advice to study the emergency patient .
and to give back to my top doctor .
a process that -- as anyone who has ever tried to do something -- in other words , everyone here -- doesn &apos;t always act reasonably .
i studied woman printer , and she was in respiratory .
and when i listened to her , she made keen sounds .
and when i listened to her chest with the stethoscope , i could hear a crushing sound on both sides , which told me that she was suffering from congestive heart failure .
this is a state in which the heart fails , instead of pumping all the blood on , a part of the blood is stuck in the lung and filling this gradually , so the shortcut came .
and that wasn &apos;t a hard diagnosis to do .
i hired them , and i went to the treatment .
i gave her aspirin . i gave her medicine to take the pressure from the heart .
i gave her medicine , which we call diuretics , tablets of water , so that she leaves the liquid .
and over a period of one and a half to two hours , she began to feel better .
i felt really good .
in fact , sometimes he can feel just paranormal .
and i made my first mistake ; i sent it home .
in fact , i made two mistakes .
i sent her home without talking to my top doctor .
i didn &apos;t take the audience up , and i did what i should have , what a call would have been with my top doctor to explain it with him , so that he would have had a chance to take a picture of himself .
and he knew that he would have been able to contribute more information to her .
maybe i did it with good reason .
maybe i didn &apos;t want to be the assistant doctor .
maybe i wanted to be so successful and so capable of taking responsibility that i was acting , and so i would be able to care for my patients without having to contact them .
my second mistake was worse .
so that i sent her home , i missed a quiet voice in me , trying to tell me , &quot; goldman , not a good idea . don &apos;t do that . &quot;
i had this encounter recently when i met the extraordinary american poet ruth stone , who is now over 90 , but who was a poet all her life . she told me that when she was growing up in the villages of virginia , she was working out on the fields , and she said she could feel and hear a poem coming across the landscape .
in fact , i was so missed with confident that i asked the nurse who was taking care of woman printer , &quot; do you think it &apos;s okay when she goes home ? &quot;
and the nurse thought about it and said , in fact , &quot; yeah , i think she &apos;s going to do well . &quot;
i remember as if it was yesterday .
so i signed the discharge papers and a ambulance and rescue assistant came and brought them home .
and i went back to work .
the young acolyths are separated from their families at the age of three and four , and in a shadow world of darkness , in stone huts at the surface of the glaciers for 18 years , two periods of each nine years , intentionally chosen to mimic the nine months of pregnancy that they spent in their primary mother &apos;s lap , they now spend metamorphically in the lap of the great mother .
the rest of the day , the night i had this nagging feeling in my stomach .
but i kept working .
and at the end of the day , i grabbed my stuff , i left the hospital , and i went to the parking lot to drive home with the car when i did something that i didn &apos;t do otherwise .
i went through the emergency department on my way home .
and there , another nurse said , not the sister who had seen printer after woman , but another three words to me , and these three words fear most emergency doctors i know .
she said it was like a thunder train of air .
other medical professionals also fear this , but the emergency care is particularly because we only see the patients so volatile .
the three words were : remember ?
&quot; remember the patients you sent home ? &quot;
the nurse was asking for a second .
&quot; so she &apos;s back , &quot; she said in this particular pitch .
so she was back .
she was back and dying .
about an hour after she got home , after i sent her home , she collapsed , and the family called 911 , and the rescue assistants brought her back to the emergency station with a blood pressure of 50 , which is a dangerous shock state .
she hardly breathed and ran blue .
the emergency workers moved all the strands .
it would roll over the country to you .
they gave their blood pressure elevator .
they attached them to the respiratory machine .
i was shocked , and i was smashed into the inner .
and i lived through this rollercoaster because she came to the intensive care unit after the stabilization , and i hoped that she would recover .
and after two , three days , it became clear that she would never wake up again .
she had suffered a non-treatable brain damage .
her family gathered together .
and over the course of the next eight or nine days , they got to the event .
on the new day , they left -- woman printers , a woman , a mother and grandmother .
they say that you never forget the names of those who die .
she felt , if it came , because it would make the earth under her feet go to the quake .
and that was the first time i learned this myself .
for the next few weeks , i made the blueprints , and i first learned the unhealthy shame that exists in our medical culture -- i felt alone , isolated , not the kind of healthy shame that you feel because you can &apos;t talk to the colleagues about it .
you all know the healthy shame , if you give you a secret to the best friend &apos;s prize , even though it swells you to weigh and then you get caught and the best friend confronts you with it , and i have an awful discussion , but when you end up with the bad conscience , and you voke that you never make such a mistake again .
if you do repetition and never make the mistake again .
this is the kind of educational shame .
the unhealthy way that i &apos;m talking about is the one that makes you in the heart of the disease .
it &apos;s the one who tells you that not what you &apos;ve done is bad , but you &apos;re bad at yourself .
and that &apos;s what i felt .
and it wasn &apos;t because of my chief doctor , he was very dear .
he was talking to the family , and i &apos;m sure he was smoking the woods and making sure i wasn &apos;t sued .
she knew that in such a moment she could only do one , and that was -- in her words -- running like the devil .
but i kept asking myself these questions .
why didn &apos;t i ask the top doctor ? why did i send them home ?
and then in my worst moments , how could i make this stupid mistake ?
why did i go to medicine ?
slowly but surely , it turned out .
i started to feel better .
and then on a cloudy day , there was a hole in the clouds , and the sun broke out , and i might say , i can feel better again .
and i was talking to myself that if i doubled my efforts to perfection and never again made a mistake that the voice could be messed up .
and she did .
and i kept working .
she ran out like the devil to the house as she was pursued by this poem , and it was all about the fact that she had to get fast enough to a piece of paper and a pencil , so she could capture it , when it was carried through her , and hold it on the sheet .
and then it happened again .
two years later , i had a service at the emergency station in a local hospital north of toronto , and i looked at a 25-year-old man with a mature rage .
there was a lot of work going on , and i was in the hurry .
he always showed up here .
i looked in the revenge , and it was a little bit pink .
and i gave him a prescription for penicillin and i sent him away .
and even as he walked out the door , he pointed at his revenge .
two days later , i came to my next emergency service , and my editor asked me to talk to her office .
and she said the three words : do you remember ?
&quot; do you remember the patient with the mature rage ? &quot;
in other paintings , she wasn &apos;t fast enough . she ran and ran and ran , but she didn &apos;t reach the house , and the poem rolled through her , and she missed it . she said it was going to move over land and , as she said , look for another poet .
it turns out that he had a streptococccco infection .
he had a potentially life-threatening disease called epiglottitis .
you can google this , but it &apos;s not an infection of revenues , it &apos;s the top respiratory , and it causes the conclusion of the respiratory trajectory .
and luckily , he didn &apos;t die .
he got intravenous antibotica and recovered a few days later .
and i went back through the same torture of shame and self-doubt , felt liberated and went back to work until it happened again and again and again .
in an emergency layer , i have twice overlooked a blinddary .
there &apos;s a lot of stuff going on , especially if you think that you &apos;re working in a hospital that had only 14 patients per night at that time .
in both cases , i didn &apos;t send them home , and there was probably no shortage in their treatment .
one was , i thought he had kidney stones .
and then there were these moments -- i &apos;ll never forget the part -- she said that there were moments when she nearly missed it .
i ordered the x-ray of the kidneys , and when that was without any evidence , my colleague , in the revival of the patient , had a hardening in the lower right sector , and called the operators .
the other one had a strong diarrhea .
i ordered fluids to rehydrate it , and i asked my colleagues to review it as well .
and that &apos;s what he did , and when he noticed a harassment in the lower right sector , he called the operators .
in both cases , they were doing surgery , and they were fine .
both cases approached me , they asked me .
and i would be happy to tell you that my worst mistakes happened only in the first five years , which is what many of my colleagues say , but total nonsense .
some of my claws have happened in the last five years .
alone , damaged and without support .
here &apos;s the problem : if i can &apos;t close with my mistakes and talk about them , if i agree the quiet voice that tells me what really can &apos;t find , then how can i share it with my colleagues ?
so , she runs to the house and looks for the paper , and the poem goes through her , and she grabs a pen just as it goes through her and then -- she said -- it was like taking her other hand and getting it packed .
how can i teach them my mistakes so that they don &apos;t commit the same ?
if i went into a room -- like right now , i have no idea what you &apos;re thinking about me .
when was the last time you heard about somebody talking about failures to fail ?
oh yeah , you go to a cocktail party , and you might hear about some other doctor , but you &apos;re not going to hear somebody talk about your own mistakes .
if i were to go into a room full of colleagues and ask for their immediate support and start telling them what i just told you , i would probably not be able to reach the end of the second story before they were really uncomfortable , anybody would have a joke , they would change the topic and forget the rest of it .
and in fact , if i or my colleagues knew that an orthopedic in my hospital would have taken the wrong leg off , you believe me that i had problems looking into his eyes .
this is the system that we live in .
it &apos;s a completely denial of errors .
it &apos;s a system where there are two basic positions -- the ones that make mistakes and the ones that don &apos;t make , the ones that constrain sleep , and the ones that have no constraints , the ones that have bad results and the good results .
it &apos;s almost an ideological reaction like antibodies that attack a human being .
she got the poem on his tail , and she pulled it back into her body , and she took it back to the sheet of paper .
and there &apos;s an idea that if we put those who make mistakes out of medicine , we &apos;re going to have a safe system .
but there are two problems with this .
in my 20-year medical sensation and journalism , i &apos;ve created a personal medical trial on medical errors and wrong treatments to learn everything i could for one of my first articles for the toronto star to my show &quot; white coat , black art . &quot;
and what i learned is that mistakes are absolutely inexhaustible .
we work in a system where errors happen every day , where one of 10 medications is either a false or wrong dose , where hospital infections become more and more and more and more , and cause devastation or dead .
in this state , about 24,000 canadians die of common errors .
in the united states , the institute for medicine is about 100,000 .
both of these are strong understatements , because we don &apos;t look at the problem as much as we should .
and this is the crux .
in a hospital system where medical knowledge doubles every two to three years , we can &apos;t keep up .
in these opportunities , the poem came in and intact on paper -- but backwards -- from the last word to the first .
sleep deprivation is ubiquitous .
we can &apos;t get rid of it .
we have a cognitive error so that we can take a perfect pathology for a patient with breast pain .
then i take the same patient with chest pain , and i sweat it and i swallow it , and i add a slightly alcoholized breath , and all of a sudden the story is transmitted with contempt .
and throughout that period , they &apos;re culturally introduced to the values of their society , values that sustain the claim that their prayers and only their prayers , the cosmic -- or we could say the ecological -- balance .
i don &apos;t take the same course .
i &apos;m not a robot ; i &apos;m not always doing things the same way .
and my patients are not cars ; they don &apos;t always tell me their symptoms in the same way .
all of this , in summary , is inevitable mistakes .
so if you take the system the way i was taught to do it , and you put out all the flawed health professionals , there &apos;s nobody left at the end .
and do you know the bodies of people who don &apos;t want to talk about their worst cases ?
and when i heard that , i thought that was kind of creepy -- that &apos;s exactly how my creative process is going on .
in my show , &quot; white coat , black art , &quot; i have the habit of saying , &quot; this is my worst mistake , &quot; i would say to everyone from the rescue assistant to the chief of the cardiologists , &quot; this is my worst mistake , &quot; blah , blah , blah , blah , blah , blah , what about yours ? &quot; and then i show him with the microphone .
and then their pupils expand , they &apos;ve come in front of their head , and then they look down and they swallow , and they start telling their stories .
they want to tell their stories . they want to share their stories .
they want to be able to say , &quot; look , don &apos;t make the same mistakes that i made . &quot;
what they need is an environment that puts them in a position .
what you need is a new medical culture .
and it starts with a doctor .
the newly defined doctor is a human being , white to make his humanity accepted , is not proud of making mistakes , but putting everything out of them so that it can be passed on .
she shares her experiences with others .
it supports when others talk about their mistakes .
it &apos;s not like my creative process at all -- i &apos;m not the channel !
and it shows others their mistakes , not to make them , but in a loving , supportive way so that everyone can benefit .
and she works in a medical culture that recognizes that people fill the system with life , and if that &apos;s the case , then people also make mistakes from time to time .
so that the system develops to create backups that make it easier to make errors that make people inevitable and also enable them to create loving , supportive spaces where anyone who observes health care can actually address things that are potential mistakes and even rewarded for that , and that , specifically , for people like me , should make mistakes and rewards for the gratification of those rewards .
my name is brian goldman .
i &apos;m the newly defined doctor .
i &apos;m a human . i make mistakes .
i regret , but i &apos;m trying to learn best from it to pass on .
i don &apos;t know what you think of me , but i can live with that .
let me close with three of my own words : i remember .
i &apos;m going to talk about a tiny , little idea .
i &apos;m a masonry . to be able to work , i have to get up at the same time every day , and sweat down , and really , really uncomfortable .
it &apos;s about alterable standards .
and because you can explain this idea in a minute , i &apos;m going to tell you three stories before to use time .
the first story is about charles darwin , one of my heroes .
you know , he was here in 1835 .
you might think he was hunting fins , but that &apos;s not true .
he actually collected fish .
he described one as very common .
it was a grouper .
until the &apos; 80s , he was fished in a big way .
now it &apos;s on the red list of endangered species .
but even in my masonry , sometimes i &apos;ve ripped this thing up .
we &apos;ve heard this story many times from the galapagos or other places , it &apos;s not very special .
yet , we still get to the galapagos .
we still think they &apos;re primal .
the brochure still describes them as untouched .
what happened here ?
the second story is supposed to be a different concept , the shiftable range of keys .
because i experienced it when i studied a lagoon in west africa in 1971 .
i went there because i grew up in europe and i wanted to work in africa later .
i thought i could integrate .
and i got a bad sunburn , and i was convinced that i really didn &apos;t come from there .
and i guess many of you have done that too .
it was my first sunburn .
as you can see , the lagoon of palms and a few mangroves was surrounded .
there were federal barrels of about 20 centimeters , black-kinned brothers , a subset of bunches .
the fisheries of these bunches were very productive , and the fishermen lived well off and earned on average in ghana .
when i returned to that 27 years later , the fish had shrunk to half its size .
they grew up to five centimeters .
they had been genetically pressed .
they were still fish .
people were still happy .
and the fish was also fortunate to be there .
even i had work or ideas that came from a source through me that i really can &apos;t identify .
so it hasn &apos;t changed anything , and yet everything has changed .
my third little story tells me about my participation in the introduction of the trawl fishery in southeast asia .
in the &apos; 70s -- rather in the early &apos; 60s -- europe was funding a lot of development projects .
fish promotion meant countries that have already caught 100,000 fish , the industrial fishing of this pretty ugly ship is called mutiara 4 .
i went to mit , and we did the census in the entire southern southern chinese sea , and especially in the javasee .
we didn &apos;t have words for what we started there .
i know now that it was the reason of the ocean .
90 percent of our start was sponges , other animals that are linked to the reason .
most of the fish , the little dots there on the rubber , the rubber pile , were coral reefs .
basically , the bottom of the ocean came to deck , and then it was thrown back .
what is this thing ?
these images are extraordinary , because the transition goes very fast .
within a year , you run a survey and then you start with the commercial fishing .
the reason is changed . because , in this case , a hard reason or soft coral becomes a match-crap .
this is a dead turtle .
they weren &apos;t eaten , they threw them away because they were dead .
one time we started a living one .
she had not drowned yet .
then they wanted to kill them , because you could eat them well .
in fact , this mountain of the rubber is collected by fishermen every time they go to areas that have never been fished .
but it &apos;s not documented .
and how do we relate to it without losing our minds , but to actually keep us on the contrary of mental health ?
we change the world , but we don &apos;t remember it .
we adapt our normal values to the new level , and we don &apos;t even remember what was there .
if you generalize it , this is what happens .
on the y-axis are some good things : biodiversity , number of orca , the green of your country , the water supply .
it changes over time . it changes , because for people , their actions are completely natural .
every generation looks at the images that you take at the beginning of your conscious life , as a standard , and will derive everything from it .
the difference is perceived as a loss .
but they don &apos;t notice the previous losses .
there can be a series of changes .
and at the end , you just want to get the inheritable remains .
for me , the best living example of how to do this is the musician tom waits . i was allowed to interview him a few years ago for a magazine .
that &apos;s what we &apos;re doing now , largely .
we want to get things that have disappeared or things that are no longer as they were .
now , you might think that the problem with people who certainly , when they lived in predator societies , they killed animals and became aware of what they had done after a few generations .
because obviously , an animal that has been very common is rarely before it dies out .
so you don &apos;t lose very often occurring animals .
you lose rare animals all the time .
and that &apos;s why it &apos;s not seen as a great loss .
over time , we focus on the large animals , and in the sea , these are the big fish .
they get rarer because we catch them .
over time , there &apos;s little fish left , and we think that &apos;s the normal value .
we talked about this topic . and you know what ? most of his life was tom &apos;s embodiment of the embarrassed modern artist who tried to dominate these uncontrollable creative impulses that lived in him and deal with them .
the question is why people accept that .
well , because they don &apos;t know it was once different .
of course , many people , scientists , will confirm that it was really different .
they &apos;re going to confirm it , because the evidence of how they were in an earlier form is not the way they would like to present the evidence .
there is , for example , the anecdote that the report of a captain , which witnessed large fishing in this area , cannot be used , or is usually not used by fishermen scientists , because it &apos;s not &quot; scientific . &quot;
at the end of this amazing initiation , you &apos;re suddenly taken out one day and for the first time in your life , at the age of 18 , you see a sunrise . and in this crystal moment of consciousness of the first light , when the sun begins to rape on the hands of the amazingly beautiful landscape , all of a sudden what you &apos;ve learned in the abstract confirmed in astonishment . and the priest comes back and says , &quot; you see ? it &apos;s really , as i told you .
so we have a situation where people don &apos;t know the past , even though we live in educated societies , because they don &apos;t trust the sources of the past .
this shows the enormous role that a marine reserve can play .
because through marine protected areas , we &apos;re basically restoring the past .
we &apos;re restoring the past that people can &apos;t understand , because the normal values have changed and are very low .
so that the people who see a marine protected area can benefit from the insight that allows them to reclaim their normal values .
but then he got older and quieter . he told me that he was driving on a highway in los angeles one day , and everything changed for him .
what about the people who don &apos;t do that because they don &apos;t have access -- the people in the midwest , for example ?
here , i think art and the film may fill the gap , and simulations .
this is chesapeake bay simulation .
there were gray whales a long time ago -- 500 years ago .
and the color notes and the shades may remind you of &quot; avatar . &quot;
if you think about &quot; avatar , &quot; if you think about why people were so touched by this -- except for the pocahoneybean story , why were they so touched by the image world ?
because it &apos;s called something that &apos;s been lost in a way .
so my recommendation , the only one i &apos;m going to give , is on cameron so that he &apos;s rotating &quot; avatar ii &quot; under water .
thank you .
in the &apos; 80s , in the communist east germany , if you had a typewriter , you had to register it at the government .
he was driving at the high speed when he suddenly hears a little fragment of a melody , which , as in inspiration , is very difficult for him to grasp , and he wants to have it . she &apos;s gorgeous . he leans afterwards , but he can &apos;t believe it .
they also had to register a piece of text from this typewriter .
the reason for that is that the government could track back where a text came from .
they found an article with false thought , and they could detect the creator of these thoughts .
and we in the west couldn &apos;t understand how anybody could do that , and how much that would restrict freedom of speech .
in our own countries , we would never do that .
but today , in 2011 , if you buy a new color laser printer from the leading laser printer factories and print a page , then this page has printed bright yellow blobs on every page , in a pattern that clearly lets the page trace to you and printer .
this is what happens to us today .
and nobody seems to get upset about that .
and this was an example of how our own governments are using the technology against us , the citizens .
and this is one of the three main sources of the online problems that exist today .
he doesn &apos;t have a piece of paper , he doesn &apos;t have a pencil , he doesn &apos;t have a tape recorder .
let &apos;s look at what &apos;s really happening in the world : we can split the attacks into categories .
we have three main groups .
there are online criminals .
for example , this is mr. dimitry golubow from kiew in ukraine .
and the motives of online criminals are very easy to understand .
these people make money .
they use online attacks to make a lot of money , a huge amount of money .
there are several known cases of online millionaires , multimillionaires that have made their money through attacks .
this is wladimir tsastsin from tartu in estonia .
this is alfred gonzalez .
so he starts to climb this old climb in him , like i &apos;m going to lose this thing and i &apos;m going to be tracked by this song for eternal .
stephen watts .
bjsorn sundin .
this is matthew anderson , tariq al-daour and so on and so forth .
these people have come online to wealth , but they &apos;ve managed to get it illegal by , for example , using trojans to steal money from our bank accounts , while we &apos;re doing our online banking , or keyloggers who have collected our credit information in the input about the keyboard , while we &apos;re buying about an infected computer online .
the u.s. intelligence agency froze two months ago the swiss account of mr. sam jain here , and on this account , 14.9 million dollars was frozen when it was frozen .
mr. jain himself is on the open foot , the place is unknown .
and i would argue that today it &apos;s more likely that we are going to be victims of an online crime than a crime in the real world .
and it &apos;s very obvious that this is just going to get worse .
in the future , most crimes are going to play online .
the second largest attacker group we can see today is not motivated by money .
i &apos;m not good enough , i &apos;m not able to do it .
they &apos;re motivated by something else -- protests , for example , an opinion , or through your audience .
groups like anonymous have gone up over the last 12 months and become one of the main players in the field of online attacks .
so these are the three main groups of attacks : criminals who do it for money , hackers like anonymous who do it , but the last group are nations , governments who run the attacks .
we have cases like diginotar .
it shows you an example of what happens when governments attack their own citizens .
diginotar is a complete certificate from the netherlands -- or it was .
in the last fall , it had to sign insolance , because diginotar had been hacked .
somebody had broken in and hacked the system thoroughly .
and last week in a meeting with dutch government officials , i asked one of the leaders of this group if he made it possible that people had died because of the diginotar hack .
and his answer was yes .
but instead of going to panic , he just stopped .
now , how do people die as a result of such hack ?
diginotar is a certification site .
they sell certificates .
what do you do with certificates ?
well , a certificate , if you have a website with https , you need ssl-encrypted services , for example , gmail .
now we all use , or many of us , gmail or one of their competitors , but these services are particularly common in totalitarian states like iran , where dissidents use foreign providers like gmail , because they know they can trust them more than local providers and they &apos;re encrypted over ssl connections , so that the local government can &apos;t sniff around in their conversations .
but you can do it if you &apos;re in a foreign .
certification agency exhibit hacking and fake certificate .
and that &apos;s what happened in the case of diginotar .
what about the arab spring and the things that happened in egypt , for example ?
he ended the whole thought process and did something completely new .
well , in egypt , the insurgency in april of 2011 looted the headquarters of egyptian intelligence , and they found a lot of action .
there was a folder in these records called &quot; finfisher . &quot;
and in this folder , there were notes from a local company in germany , which the egyptian government had sold a few programs that they were able to capture , in a very large way , any communication of egyptian citizens .
they had sold this program to the egyptian government for 280,000 euros .
the corporate headquarters are right here .
so western governments are providing totalitarian governments with tools so that they can do it against their own citizens .
but western governments also help themselves .
for example , in germany , just a few weeks ago , the so-called state strajan , which was a trojan that was used by german government officials to occupy their own citizens .
if you &apos;re suspected in a criminal case , it &apos;s pretty safe to tap your phone .
but today we are far beyond that .
he just looked in the sky and said , sorry , can &apos;t you see that i &apos;m driving ?
they tap into their internet connection .
they use tools like the state strajan to deploy their computer with a trojan that allows them to monitor their entire communication , listen to their online discussions , collect their passwords .
so if we keep thinking about things like this , people &apos;s obvious answer would be , &quot; ok , that sounds bad , but it doesn &apos;t matter to me because i &apos;m a good citizen .
i don &apos;t have to worry .
i have nothing to hide . &quot;
and that argument doesn &apos;t make sense .
privacy must be given .
privacy is not the debate .
it &apos;s not a decision between privacy and security .
it &apos;s a decision between freedom and control .
i look like i could just write up a song ?
and while today , in 2011 , we may trust our governments , every right we &apos;re going to leave is forever .
and do we trust , do we blindly trust any government in the future , a government that we might have in 50 years ?
these are the questions that we have to deal with for the next 50 years .
it may seem strange to you , but i &apos;m a big fan of concrete blocks .
the first concrete blocks were made in 1868 , and they came up with a simple idea : module from cement with fixed measures that fit together .
concrete tiles very quickly became the most used building unit in the world .
they put us in the position of building things bigger than us , buildings , bridges , stone after stone .
basically , the concrete building block had become the building block of our time .
almost a hundred years later , in 1947 , lego came out with this .
it was called the &quot; automatically bonding rock . &quot;
if you really want to exist , come back to a cheaper moment , if i can take care of you .
and within a few years , lego moved into every household .
it &apos;s estimated that over 400 billion stones have been produced -- or 75 stones for every person on the planet .
it &apos;s so wonderful . you have to protect it . &quot;
you don &apos;t have to be an engineer to create beautiful houses , beautiful bridges or beautiful buildings .
lego made it possible for everyone .
lego basically took the concrete building block , the building block of the world , and made it a building block for our imagination .
in the meantime , in the same year at bell labs , the next revolution was announced , the next building block .
the transistor was a small unit of plastic that would bring us from a world of static , stacked tiles to a world where everything was interactive .
like the concrete block , the transistor allows us to build much larger , more complex cycles , one stone at a time .
but there &apos;s a major difference : the transistor was just for experts .
personally , i don &apos;t accept that the building block of our time is reserved for experts , and so i decided to change that .
if not , squawks today are somebody else .
eight years ago , i was at the media lab , and i started to explore this idea of how to put the power of engineers into the hands of artists and designers .
a few years ago , i started to develop littlebits .
let me show you how they work .
littlebits are electronic modules that have a specific function .
they &apos;re made , light , sound , engine and sensor .
and the best part is that they connect with magnets .
that &apos;s how you can &apos;t put them around the wrong way .
the stones are colored .
green is an issue , blue is electricity , pink is input , and orange is cable .
so all you have to do is connect a blue and a green , and you can quickly build bigger circles .
go and squawk leonard cohen .
you add a blue one to a green one , and you can make light .
you can put a switch in between , and so you &apos;ve created a little dimmer .
take the switch out to put in a pulsman , which is here , and you &apos;ve made a little blinker .
add this buzzer to an extra effect , and they made a noise machine .
i &apos;m going to stop that .
beyond the simple game , littlebits are actually quite powerful .
instead of having to program , wired or solved , littlebits allow them to program with simple , intuitive gestures .
so to accelerate or slow down the blind , just turn to this button , and it makes the impulse faster or slower .
the idea behind littlebits is that it &apos;s a growing library .
we want to bring every single interaction in the world into a useful stone .
his whole process of work has changed after that .
lights , sounds , solar elements , motors -- everything should be available .
we have littlebits distributed to children , and we see them playing with it .
and it was an incredible experience .
the most beautiful thing is how you start to understand the electronics that surround you in your everyday life and you don &apos;t learn in school .
for example , how a night light works , or why the elevators of the elevator remain open , or how an ipod responds to touch .
we &apos;ve also brought littlebits to design schools .
so , for example , we didn &apos;t have any designer experience in electronic things that started playing with littlebits as a material .
here we see , with film , paper and water bottles , like geordie ...
a few weeks ago , we took littlebits to risd , and we gave them some designers who didn &apos;t have any technical experience -- just carton , wood and paper -- and said , &quot; do something . &quot;
here &apos;s an example of a project that they did , a motion-controlled confete cannon .
not the work itself . it was still as dark as ever .
but wait , this is really my favorite project .
it &apos;s a hummer made of play-doh that &apos;s scared in the darkness .
for these non-engineers , littlebits became another material , electronics became just another material .
and we want to make this material available for everyone .
so littlebits are open source .
you can go to the website , download all the design benefits and make them yourself .
we want to encourage the world of the creators , the inventors , the contributors , because this world that we live in , this interactive world , belongs to us .
so , go ahead and start inventing it .
thank you .
but the process and the heavy climb that surrounds him was lifted up when he took the genius out , where he didn &apos;t make anything more trouble and left him where he was sort of coming from , and he realized that there had to be no internal , agonizing thing .
there could be a strange , wonderful , bizarre collaboration , a kind of conversation between tom and the strange , external thing that wasn &apos;t quite tom .
when i heard this story , it also changed a little bit of the way i worked and it saved me once .
this idea saved me when i was in the middle of the writing process of eat , pray , love , and i fell into one of these graves of the doubt that we all fall when we work on something and it doesn &apos;t work . you start to think it &apos;s a disaster . that &apos;s the worst book ever written .
not just bad , but the worst of all time .
i started to think i should just put the project in .
they call themselves the older brothers and say that we are responsible for the destruction of the world .
but then i remembered tom talking in the open sky , and i tried .
so i took my view of the manuscript and i spoke my comment towards an empty corner of the room .
i said , &quot; listen , you know , you thing , you and i know both , if this book is not brilliant , it &apos;s not completely my fault , right ? &quot;
because you can see that i &apos;m investing everything i have . i don &apos;t have more than that .
so if you want to have it better , you &apos;ve got to cross here and keep your percentage of the deal .
okay . but if you don &apos;t do that , you know what , it &apos;s the devil .
i &apos;m going to keep writing , because that &apos;s my job .
and i want to ask you to protocol that i was here today for my part of the job .
because ... at the end , it &apos;s like this . centuries ago , in the deserts of north africa , people have gathered to monthly fetuses with sacred dances and music that were held for hours -- until dawn .
these fests were always great , because the dancers were professional , and they were fantastic .
now this level of intuition becomes very important .
but every once in a while , very rarely , something special happened , and one of the performers actually became overseas .
and i know you know what i mean , because i know that all of you in your life have seen such a performance .
it was as if time was standing still and the dancer stepped through a kind of pforte . he didn &apos;t do anything but he had ever done it before -- 1,000 nights before . but it all fused together .
and all of a sudden , he no longer seemed completely human .
it was illuminated from the inside and illuminated from the bottom , and everything was illuminating through a divine fire .
when something like this happened , people knew what this was . they called it on his name .
they put their hands together , and they started singing , like , allah , allah , allah , god , god , god .
that &apos;s god , you know ?
interesting historic footnote : when the mosquito in southern spain , they brought this practice in . the language changed over the centuries from the allah , allah , allah , allah , olé , olé , which you still hear in the bat and flamenco dances .
if a performer in spain has done something impossible , something magical : it &apos;s like , you know , olé , olé , allah , great , bravo , you know , there it is : a glimpse of god .
every time we think about innate and landscape , we either complain rousseau and the old framework of the noblen wild , which in its simplification is a racial thought or , on the other hand , thoreau and say , these people are more connected to nature than we are .
and that &apos;s great , because we need that .
but the tricky part follows the next morning when the dancer himself wakes up and realizes that it &apos;s 11 o &apos;clock on a tuesday -- and he no longer has a fifth of god in him .
he &apos;s just an aging mortal with painful knees , and maybe he &apos;ll never go up to those heights again .
and maybe never again , will anyone call god &apos;s name when he turns around , but what is he going to do with the rest of his life ?
it &apos;s hard .
this is one of the most painful corrections of a creative life .
but maybe it doesn &apos;t have to be so full of embarrassment if you didn &apos;t believe from the beginning that the most extraordinary aspects of your being came from you .
if you may just believe you &apos;re a loan -- from an unbelievable source for a reader time of your life passed on to somebody else when you &apos;re done with it .
when we start thinking about it this way , it changes everything .
so i started thinking , and so i certainly think in the last few months , working on the book that &apos;s going to come soon -- as the dangerous , scary , strongly expected follower of my outcome .
so , innate babies are not sentimental , nor are they chosen by nostalgia .
what i have to tell myself all the time when i get crazy about this is : don &apos;t worry .
don &apos;t be discouraged .
just do your job .
continue to be there for your contribution , whatever he wants to be .
if your job is dancing , dance .
if the dumb divine genius that you &apos;re on the side , decides to show a host of wonder for a moment , through your effort , then , you know , it &apos;s going to be .
and if not , still dance your dance .
and , you know , it &apos;s all in spite of that .
i believe that , and i feel like we should teach that .
it &apos;s just that , despite all this , you know , you &apos;ve got the mere human love and the sense of being there .
there &apos;s not a lot of space for this in the malaria swamped swells of asmat or the cold winds of tibet , but they still , through time and ritual , have shaped a mysterious nimbus of the earth , which is not based on the idea of being consciously close , but on a far more subtle intuition , the idea that the earth itself can only exist because it &apos;s breathed into the human mind .
thank you .
thank you .
olé !
last year , i showed these two slides to illustrate that the arctic ice caps , which for nearly three million years had the size of the bottom 48 states , was shrinking 40 percent .
but this doesn &apos;t really express the seriousness of this particular problem , because it doesn &apos;t show the thick of the ice .
in a sense , the arctic ice caps is the beating heart of our global climate system .
it grows in the winter and shrinks in the summer .
the next slide i &apos;m going to show you is a time-lapse picture of what &apos;s happened in the last 25 years .
the permanent ice is labeled with red .
as you can see , it marks up to the dark blue , this is the annual ice in the winter , and it shrinks in the summer .
well , what does that mean ?
the so-called permanent ice , five years old , is almost like blood flowing out of the body here .
in 25 years , it will be gone from here to here .
this is a problem , because warming is the frozen reason around the arctic ocean , where there are huge amounts of carbon in frozen , which , when it &apos;s flourishing , is transformed from microbes to methane .
compared to the entire amount of climate change materials in the atmosphere , that amount could double if we crossed that critical point .
already today , in some flat lakes in alaska methane from the water itself .
professor katey walter at the university of alaska has traveled to another shallow lake last winter .
wow !
you &apos;re doing fine . the question is , how are we going to get there ?
and one reason is that this enormous heat patch heats greenland from the north .
this is an annual dive water flow .
it means that a little kid from the andean that grows up in the belief that the mountain is an apu-spirit that will be or determine their destiny will become a whole other person , and will have a different relationship with this resource or this place , as a little kid from montana who grows up in the belief that a mountain is a pile of rocks that can be worn off .
but the volume is much bigger than ever before .
this is the kangerlussuaq river in southwest greenland .
if you want to know how sea level is going through ice sheets , it &apos;s going up into the sea here .
these rivers are rising rapidly .
on the other end of the planet , antarctica , the largest ice mass on the planet .
last month , researchers reported that the entire continent now has a negative ice footprint .
and the west antarctica , which has been shown over a few underwater islands , is particularly strong in melting .
this is 20 feet of sea level , like greenland .
in the himalayas , the third largest ice mass , you see new lakes at the top that were glaciers a few years ago .
40 percent of the people in the world get half of their drinking water from this melting water .
whether it &apos;s a place of mind or a pile of ore , it &apos;s irrelevant .
in the andean , this glacier is the drinking water source for this city .
the amount of water has expanded .
but when you seal , most of the drinking water will fall away .
in california , a 40 percent reduction in the snow ceiling of the sierra .
this is in the basin .
and the predictions of how you read them are serious .
this austrosis all over the world leads to a dramatic increase in fire .
and the disasters all over the world have been in a really extraordinary and unprecedented extent .
four times as many in the last 30 years as in the previous 75 .
this is a completely unsustainable pattern of development .
the interesting thing is the metaphor that defines the relationship between the individual and nature .
if you look at this in the historical context , you can see what it &apos;s doing .
in the last five years , we &apos;ve produced 70 million tons of co2 every 24 hours -- 25 million tons per day into the oceans .
look very closely at the area of the eastern pacific , from the american continent west and both of the indian subcontinent , where there is a dramatic decline in the oxygen in the ocean .
the biggest single factor for global warming , besides deforestation , which is 20 percent , is burning fossil fuels .
oil is a problem , and coal is the biggest problem .
the united states is one of the two largest pollutants , along with china .
and the proposal was to build many more coal factories .
but we &apos;re starting to see a change .
here are the ones that have been stripped in the last few years with some green alternatives that have been proposed .
there &apos;s a political argument in our country .
i grew up in the forests of british colombia , and i believed that these forests were there to be bathed .
and the coal industries and oil dustries spent a quarter billion dollars last year on calendars to promote clean coal , which is a contradiction in itself .
this picture reminded me of something .
around christmas , at home in tennessee , a billion tons of coal light .
you &apos;ve probably seen it in the news .
this is all over our country the second largest waste flow in america .
this is what happened around christmas .
one of the ads of the coal industry around christmas was this .
frosty the carbon man is a happy , happy guy .
it &apos;s in skin and abundance in america , and it helps our economy grow .
frosty , the carbon man gets cleaner every day .
this made me another person than my friends under the kwakiutl , who believe that these forests are the place of hukuk and the boomed celestial beak and the cannibali spirits that live in the northern world , spirits that they would be involved in their hamasa-initiation .
it &apos;s affordable and loving , and workers are staying in wages and bread .
this is the source of most coal in west virginia .
the most powerful miner is the head of massey coal .
let me say one thing clearly . al gore , nancy pelosi , harry reid , you don &apos;t know what you &apos;re talking about .
so the alliance for climate change has started two campaigns .
this is one , one part of her .
at coalergy , we see climate change as a serious danger to our business .
so we set it to the top line to spend a substantial amount of money to get a commercial action on the way to get the truth about coal .
in fact , coal is not dirty .
we think it &apos;s clean -- and it smells good .
well , if you start to look at the idea that these cultures can create different realities , you can understand some of their extraordinary discoveries , like this plant here .
so , don &apos;t worry about climate change .
let &apos;s leave that alone .
clean coal , you &apos;ve heard a lot about it .
so let &apos;s take a tour of this modern , clean coal factory .
fantastic ! this machine is pretty loud .
but it &apos;s the sound of clean coal technology .
and yet , the burning of coal is one of the main reasons global warming is that the remarkable clean coal technology that you see here changes everything .
look at it carefully , this is the current , clean coal technology .
finally , the positive alternative mixes with our economic challenge and our challenge of national security .
america is in a crisis , the economy , the national security , the climate crisis .
it &apos;s a photograph i just took last april in the northwest of the amazon .
the red thread that connects them all is our dependence on carbon based fuels like dirty coal and foreign oil .
but now there &apos;s a brave , new solution to unleash us from this miserable situation .
supply of america with 100 percent clean electricity in the next 10 years .
a plan to bring america back to work , make us safer and help stop global warming .
finally , a solution that &apos;s big enough to solve our problems .
restore america . find out more .
all these people teach us that there are other possibilities of existence , other ways of thinking , other ways of orienting earth .
this is the last one .
it &apos;s about a new supply of america .
one of the fastest ways of reducing our dependence on old , dirty fuels that are emitting our world .
the future is here . wind , sun and a new energy system .
this is ayahuasca , which many of you have heard of , the strongest psychoactive preparate from the repertoire of the shaman .
new investments to create well-paid jobs .
repurposes america . it &apos;s time to accept reality .
there &apos;s an old african saying : &quot; if you want to be fast , go alone .
if you want to get far , go together . &quot;
we have to get far , quickly .
thank you .
i want to start by asking you to think back to the time you were a kid when you were playing with building blocks .
as they realized how to reach out and access the hands , taking the blocks and moving , they actually learned to think about it and solve problems through understanding and changing spatial coherence .
spatial thinking is closely connected to how we understand a lot of our environment .
as a computer scientist -- inspired by the way we interact with real objects -- with my professional patti and my colleague , jeevan kalanithi , i started to wonder : what if we could use computers instead of a mouse pointer that moves like a digital fingertip on a flat surface -- what if we could intervene with both hands and physically capture data and organize it in the way we want to ?
this question was so poignant that we decided to explore the answer and develop siftables .
in short , a siftable is an interactive computer the size of a cookie .
they can be moved by the hand , they can perceive each other , they can capture their movements , and they have a screen and a radio receiver .
more importantly , it &apos;s physical , and that &apos;s why you can only move it like building blocks through the extension of hands and access .
and the siftables are an example of a new generation of tools to manipulate digital data .
and if these tools become more physical and develop awareness of their movements , recognize each other and perceive the subtleties of our transition with them , then we can start to explore new and entertaining interactions .
i &apos;m going to start with some simple examples .
this siftable is configured for the video copying , and if i tip it in one direction , the video will be played forward ; if i tip it in the other direction , it will go backwards .
and these interactive portraits are realizing each other .
so when i put them next to each other , that &apos;s what makes them interested .
this plant contains some very strong tryptamins that are very similar to the serotonin , dimethyltryptamin 5 and methoxydimethyltryptamin .
if you &apos;re surrounded by one , you &apos;ll notice that , and you can get a little nervous .
and they also feel their movement and tendency .
one interesting consequence of the interactions that we started to realize was that we could apply everyday gestures to data , like shooting colors in the way that you do with fluids .
in this case , we &apos;ve configured three siftables as color pots , and i can use them to pour color in the middle , where they &apos;re mixed .
if we exaggerate it , we can put it back a little bit .
there are also some nice opportunities in education like languages , math or logic games , where we give people the opportunity to do fast trial and immediately see the results .
here i am -- this is a fibonacci series that i &apos;m making with a simple equation program .
this is a game with words that is a kind of mixture of scrabble and boggle .
basically , you get every round on every siftable random letter , and as you try to make words , they &apos;re checked over a dictionary .
then , after about 30 seconds , you mix again , and you have a new combination of letters and new possibilities to try .
if you &apos;ve seen the yanomammals sniff this stuff , this substance that they make from different species also contains methoxydimethyltryptamin .
thank you .
these are some kids who came to the media lab on a trip , and i could get them to try it out and take a video of it .
they really loved it .
one interesting thing about these kinds of applications is that you don &apos;t have to give people a lot of instructions .
all you have to say is &quot; educate words , &quot; and they know exactly what to do .
here are a couple of people who are testing it .
this is our youngest beta-tester down there on the lower right .
it turned out that he just wanted to stack the siftables .
so for him , they were just building blocks .
this is an interactive trick-film twist .
sniff this powder is kind of like being shot out of a woodwalk , being eaten by baroque paintings and the landing on a sea of electricity .
we wanted to develop a tool for language learners .
this is felix .
he can bring new characters into the scene by lifting up the siftable from the table that shows this character .
this is where he &apos;s going to let the sun go .
the sun rises .
now he &apos;s going to put a tractor in the scene .
the orange tractor .
good work ! yes !
by shaking the siftables and putting them side-by-side , he can make the characters interact ...
... invent his own story .
it &apos;s not a distortion of reality , but the resolution of reality .
hello !
it &apos;s a story with open end , and it can decide how it evolves .
flying cat .
the last example that i have to show you today is a music sequencer for live performing that we &apos;ve recently developed and operate in the siftables as sound , like leadership , bass and drums .
each has four different variations ; you can choose which one you want to use .
and you can put these sounds into the sequence that you can put in any pattern .
and you feed them in by just holding a clay sift to a sequence sift .
there are effects that you can change live , like hall and filters .
you connect it to a particular tone , and then you tend to hire it .
and then you have over-arranged effects like speed and volume , which you apply to the whole sequence .
i even discussed with my professor , richard evan shultes , the man who was able to put the psychedelic aprea in the discovery of the magic mushrooms in mexico in the 300s , and i said that you couldn &apos;t put these tryptamins as a hallucinator , because the moment you feel the impact , you &apos;re not there anymore to experience a hallucination .
so let &apos;s see .
we start by eating the leadership voice into two sequencing siftable and putting it in a series , expanding it and adding a little bit more of the voice .
now i add a barrel to it .
now i &apos;m going to do something else about this .
and now i &apos;m connecting the filter to the drums so that i can control the effect live .
i can accelerate the whole sequence by kicking the pace in one direction or another .
and now i &apos;m connecting the filter to the barrel , for a little bit more expression .
i can reframe the sequence as it &apos;s going off .
so i don &apos;t have to plan them in the field , but i can improvise them ; i have to expand them or shrink them in the process .
and finally , i can extend the whole sequence by tilting the volume siftable to the left .
but the thing about tryptamins is that they can &apos;t be taken in oral , because they &apos;re denatured through a human intestine , naturally occurring enzyme called monoamin oxidase .
thank you .
so as you can see , my enthusiasm is to develop new human-computer interfaces that are better adapted to how our brains and bodies work .
and today i had time to show you a part of this new design world and some of the ways we &apos;re working on in our lab .
the idea that i want to leave you with is that we are at the threshold of this new generation of tools to interact with digital media , bringing information into our world that corresponds to our demands .
thank you .
i &apos;m looking forward to talking to all of you !
yes , good afternoon .
i &apos;m glad i &apos;m there .
yeah , so , what should be biohacking ?
i &apos;ve got to do this a little bit , and that &apos;s biohacking is about modern molecular biology .
they can only be interfered with some other chemicals that denate the mao .
i &apos;ve been studying molecular biology , and i &apos;ve just been looking at biohacking for a couple of years , and i started this because i just wanted to know more about it , and i really wanted to do it myself , which i &apos;ve learned theoretically in the study .
so , that was my primary motivation .
so it was a curiosity , and i wanted to sort of get closer to the matter , like that .
i think that molecular biology in general now , generally speaking , biotechnology , everything you count , synthetic biology and so on .
extremely important , now it &apos;s extremely important and much , much more important in the future .
there &apos;s such controversial things as all these genetically engineered plants on the apples .
there are now craig venter in the united states , trying to make biofuel , which is gasoline from algae .
and then there are also things that have come in totally day-to-day , which is not aware of most people , for example , washing enzymes that allow us to wash at 40 degrees of laundry are also genetically optimized enzymes .
and you can continue the list endlessly .
and so from the interest of this , this technology , i &apos;ve just moved on .
now the fascinating thing is that the betacarbons that are in the liane are mao-inhibitors of exactly the kind that are necessary to potential the tryptamins . so ask yourself .
so why hack ?
most people know this from the software area .
computers are hacking , and then it &apos;s always going to be like this in the media , yes , the hackers are going to break in some place and claw data and so on .
that &apos;s kind of sad for the hacking scene , because that &apos;s not what it really started like and what &apos;s behind it .
and this is an idea that , if you think about it , can only meet you with hope .
and that is that the software hackers , in the &apos; 70s , started with computer tinkering , and that &apos;s what the internet came out of .
and it &apos;s about solving a problem in a playful , creative , original way .
and the problem , it &apos;s not just a technical problem , it can also be a social problem , it can also be just a access problem , which is how things simplify , so any problem you have , throw up a question , and how can you do it differently , or how can you do it better .
and it &apos;s just been raised with software , but there &apos;s also an electronics field , and there &apos;s a whole tinkering scene that does all kinds of electronics circuits with all kinds of things .
and now , even in the direction of biology , i want to take this metaphor that comes from synthetic biology , that biology is actually an information science , because , the d.n.a code is an abstract code , which is yes , it &apos;s not exactly the same as computers , because it &apos;s more dynamic , because it &apos;s matter , so it &apos;s real matter , and not just cyber .
but it &apos;s also a code , and you can program it , and you can also hack it , like that , and i thought it was incredibly fascinating , and i just wanted to get a lot deeper with it .
how can these people from a flora of 80,000 species of adstringregating plants find these two morphologically unrelated plants that , when combined in that way , create a kind of biochemical version , so that the whole thing is bigger than the sum of its parts ?
this actually just took two thousand pieces of shape , these networks .
there &apos;s hackteria dot org , which is originally from switzerland , which is with europe and with a cooperation in india based on the network , but which has now members or active people all over the world .
these are more artistic orientation , so there are a lot of artists and philosophers and working with scientists to try to deal with these technologies and to ask questions and to process them creatively , there are museum exhibitions , and yes , all kinds of things .
but it &apos;s really all about finding such a locker access , having such a playful approach .
and then there &apos;s do-it-yourself bio dot org , d.i.y.bio .
this is a network from the u.s.a , which is actually more of a kind of forum where you &apos;re going to meet and discuss online .
they &apos;re a little bit more technical , and they &apos;re also a little bit more business , and they &apos;re also being asked , yes , questions that are applied .
and from these networks that have made the whole popular , there &apos;s been such a scene that i want to portray for a moment .
here in the upper left , you see biocurious , this is a hackerspace , so basically a school , a private school , a nonprofit facility , where everyone can get there .
kids , old , all kinds of people go there just to deal with it , they set up a lab , and they look at what can you do when these lab protocols are .
we use this great euphemism , trial and error , which turns out to be meaningless .
here on the lower left is a group in indonesia , house-of-natural fiber , which is , but it &apos;s been around for quite a long time .
for longer than those other two networks .
they also deal with an artistic aspect of biological materials , and , yes , also electronics tinkering , and combine it in a fairly remote way .
a group of ankara that i met a while ago , which is a group of students who wanted to communicate more to the public what they &apos;re learning in college , and they &apos;ve been doing so on street , and they &apos;re trying to explain to people what d.n.a is .
and i have a lecture up there in the other image in copenhagen at the medical museum in combination with an exhibition on the topic .
and that &apos;s , yes , that &apos;s mostly quite young people , but the only thing that really brings you all together is this fascination of technology .
and what you can do with it , and you &apos;re also targeted to go to the society and ask , &quot; okay , what do you know , what do you want to do , are you interested in bringing you into this ? &quot;
so , o.k , to hack biology , you need some material .
you need biological materials , of course , and you also need tools , and that &apos;s a lab .
or what you normally understand under a laboratory , these are sort of discarded machines , extremely expensive , extremely distance , just for professionals , trained academics with ph.d. and so on .
but you ask the indians , they say , &quot; the plant speaks to us . &quot;
and our approach was just to say , okay , well , you don &apos;t actually have to do that .
it &apos;s not really necessary , because every coffee machine has actually more sophisticated technology than most laboratories , that &apos;s really the way it is .
and the o with this premise , for example , with this premise , brian degger , for example , tried to put together a minimum abor , then took a steam pressure cooker , a heat plate , and , yes , that &apos;s how suppencing , and then growing bacteria , works .
so anybody who has been gaming a soup that they &apos;ve been standing for too long has been done .
so i tried this in my lab at home to extend a little bit , and then i bought some second-hand equipment on ebay , and i did a little bit of d.n.a analysis , trying to do a father &apos;s work , so that &apos;s the / d.n.a fingerprinting , to do it back home .
now that shouldn &apos;t be a joke , actually , but .
so , down here in the picture , you see the lab , in the leadership , so there &apos;s this kind of admitted garage with all kinds of labs that the university has been doing , a group in paris that has come up with something , and it &apos;s pretty successful with it , and it also does pretty interesting things , and i want to cut another project for a moment .
and this is biocurious , who just mentioned hackerspace , this yes , sort of a folk school , basically for molecular biology .
and yeah , so , you see , it &apos;s relatively straight , so there &apos;s a lot of people who are doing it alone , all the way down to big organizations that are already doing it in an institutionalized form .
but always the approach that it should be simple and accessible .
so , what does that mean ?
the first project that we did as an international group , when we kind of became aware of ourselves , o.k , it gives us now as a real scene , and we &apos;re online , and we know the people who are always chatting and so on .
and then from the do-it-yourself bio org website of the founder , and he said , o.k , we really have to meet now , we &apos;ve got to meet real meetings , and then we &apos;ve organized two events , one in london , two thousand , and shortly after that in the united states , in san francisco .
and then , it was about , yes , yeah , who are we , what do we want , what do we want to share ?
and what are our values and what are our target , our basis ?
and then we created a code-of-conduct like this .
that was quite intuitive , so everyone just expressed their wishes , his and what moves him , then .
there was , in my opinion , a very good code .
and then we don &apos;t have that connection , but that &apos;s what i think has done quite well , people are quite convinced of that .
and we even tried to bring that back to the academic world , but somehow it didn &apos;t get there .
so i think we &apos;re from the biohacking scene , in fact , a step further than the academic world .
this tribe , the cofan , has 17 varieties of ayahuasca that you all recognize at great distances in the woods that appear for our eyes as a species .
yes , what kind of projects are we doing ?
one project that i did with the hackteria network in switzerland itself was that we wanted to build a so-called optical trap or optical pink .
this is , if you focus a laser beam , you focus on one in the room , you can capture little particles in the air , or in the liquid , and then you move in that focus , so that &apos;s actually stuck there , like a tractor beam .
this really works , this is done in the academic setting , and then we thought , okay , maybe we can do this , then we took a webcam that &apos;s screwed up , we &apos;ve turned off the lens , then you &apos;ve got a microscope that &apos;s about four hundred times bigger .
you see that down there .
and then we screwed a d.v.d brenner apart and got the laser out , and then we tried to focus on this camera .
and that didn &apos;t work , unfortunately , but we &apos;ve learned a lot about it anyway .
this is another project , which is from the french group in paris , which worked , which is pretty cool .
and that is , he &apos;s got one of these , you know , a brain wave measuring device , e.e.e.g or something like that , so he &apos;s been dealing with neurobiology , his nickname is sam neurohack .
he then built this helmet there , and in the cooperation with the museum , this is what he did .
and then they ask them how they do their taxonomy and they say , &quot; i thought you understand something about plants .
and then the visitors could go into the room , sit on this chair , sit down this helmet .
then your brainwaves were measured , and depending on what you thought or how you thought , then different lights in the room went on .
it was a pretty fortunate project .
another thing from the united states , which has to do with this father &apos;s story , is the p.c.r , which is polymerase chain response , complicated word .
so it &apos;s about copying genes , replicating , d.n.a , fragments , so you can make them visible .
so if i do this , the profilers in the crime scene , then i go , collect some hair samples , and then they do this method , and then they can say , o.k , this hair belongs to this person , like this .
and the machines that do this , they &apos;re pretty expensive to buy commercially , the cheapest ones go off at four thousand euros .
and that &apos;s not in the hobbyway , but it &apos;s a really cool technology that can also do a lot of things .
so this is just one application of many that you can do with this .
and they &apos;ve set up two builders , and they &apos;ve said , okay , we &apos;re going to make this easier and cheaper , and then we &apos;ve got it out of open source , so free hardware , electronics , and they &apos;re going to assemble this device , and they &apos;re now the ones that have actually brought this to market , and they &apos;re now the cheapest vendor of these devices in the world .
i mean , you know nothing at all ? &quot; and i said , &quot; no . &quot;
i think that &apos;s kind of six dollars or something .
but anyway , it &apos;s still not cheap , but it &apos;s certainly in a context where it &apos;s going to be much more available .
so i think it &apos;s a very promising hack .
one project that i had recently started building a gene gun .
gene-gun is , yes , like a kind of air pressure gun , which shoots about this far , two inches or so .
you put d.n.a on gold particles , and then you put the gold particles in that air pressure gun , and then i shot them on onions , and then i made them light like this .
so the device that you see there didn &apos;t work .
but this is my prototype , which looked pretty much like this , on such a branch , which is the thing on it , attached to electronics on it and pressure , and it was too high , but the pressure was broken .
and then i took a juicer and i attached it to it .
a juicer , if you do it full of water , has enough pressure , so i think , 40 to six thousand bar bar .
well , it turns out that you take each of the 17 variants in full moon and they sing to you in a different pitch .
and then you can accelerate the particles much enough , and then they go into the onion as well .
and the commercial device costs about five thousand euros up or something like that , aspen about 50 .
so it doesn &apos;t have the same efficiency , but it &apos;s basically doable .
so that &apos;s what &apos;s going on right now is that the core issue of the scene is to increase the availability of technology and also increase the information and the understanding that more people can get involved .
because , as i said in the beginning , it &apos;s an extremely important technology , and most people have relatively little idea of it and also no chance to really form well .
because if you just read about it , from secondary literature , that &apos;s not the same as if you &apos;ve done it yourself or seen it .
and i think technology is becoming more and more important in our modern societies .
and if you , as an informed citizen , want to be able to make meaningful decisions in society and talk , you need access to knowledge and to technology .
and you have to do it and understand it in order to do it and understand it .
and that then fires open knowledge and citizen science under the headwords .
now , this doesn &apos;t give you a harvard ph.d. , but it &apos;s much more interesting to count than tribal .
so that you , as citizens , are being put into a position to deal with these scientific technologies .
and this is the core cause of the biohackers .
these are the people who have at least officially agreed on the website , d.i.y.bio-dot-org website .
that &apos;s a relatively remarkable number of people around the world .
and what &apos;s interesting is that they &apos;re also represented in southeast asia .
that &apos;s what i think there are fewer people involved than there are actually .
so i know of some who didn &apos;t commit .
and these are just the biohackers now , the individual people .
in part , with these hackerspaces , these places together .
