you know , one of the great reasons to travel , and one of the joys of ethnic research is to live together with the people who can still remember the old days , who still feel their past in the wind , touch them on the rainfall , taste them in the bitter leaves of plants .
together , the myriad cultures of the world form a web of spiritual and cultural life that surrounds the earth and the good of the earth is as important as the biological life web that you know as a biosphere .
now , the problem with this is that even those of us who have sympathy for the difficult situation of the innate , look at them as orgatory and colorful , but they kind of limit them to the past , while the real world , that is , our world , is progressing .
and that &apos;s at the very beginning .
as i said , two-thousandth , it just started .
and hackerspaces , you know , the computer hackerspaces , because the c-base in berlin was the first , ninety-hundred , ninety-five .
and this has now become a huge network of very good , yes , infrastructural centers that are represented all over the world .
and we &apos;re hoping , of course , that we &apos;re going to spread the same way and then connect the same way , so that we can get more people involved .
and i would invite everyone to deal with it and try something themselves .
it &apos;s not that simple now , but it &apos;s not impossible , if you have enough curiosity and you put enough energy in there , you get far .
thank you for listening .
that &apos;s it .
yes , hello .
so , the fact is , in 300 years , you will remember not for your wars or your technological innovations , but rather than an era where we were towards , and the massive destruction of biological and cultural diversity on earth either actively supported or passively accepted , and so the problem is not the change .
how do we actually work ?
this is a question that really moves me as a designer , but also in the field of research , usability , and in all the things in the user experience .
it &apos;s about how to encounter people in interactive media so they can use these interactive media and create a possible satisfying experience .
because i think that the interactive media in us is addressing archaic , cognitive models , so paradigms that have been programmed in our biological memory very , very long ago , very long ago , and that we can just reproduce them through interactive media .
and this is very amazing , because you actually believe that this high-tech that you &apos;re going to see that it actually takes you into the future , but in fact , the future is right with us , in our archaic roots .
so what are archaic models ?
i wrote down four words , and i &apos;d like to explain them briefly .
in archaic cognitive models , these are the models that we have adapted in the pre-industrial times .
and the archaic models are that we have basically natural ratio to virtuality .
that sounds , in principle , unusual .
all cultures have been involved in the dance with new possibilities of life .
but i &apos;m going to go back to that in a minute and try to prove to you that you also have a natural relationship with virtuality .
the second thing is that , since this archaic model , we &apos;ve been able to speak very , very visually , even though today we &apos;re using a coded language .
and the third area , which actually explains itself .
we all know that interactive media is by definition nonlinear , which includes the reason of linearity , and which , of course , tells us that we feel the linearity today as normal .
the fourth point is that the story for us is a place of information .
now , what about the virtuality that &apos;s actually the most natural thing in the world ?
i &apos;d like to prove that to you .
how many doors does the house that you live in ?
we &apos;re not going to be able to answer that to me immediately , but this is what &apos;s going to happen , and it &apos;s happening right now .
they go through this house in the spirit , and they live in demn , and they look at how many doors there are .
and the problem is not the technology itself .
and that &apos;s exactly what they do .
they virtualize reality , without computers .
fantastic , right ?
and we &apos;re trying to figure out , you know , on the media campus , for example , the virtual reality in our v.r. lab , and we can actually do that all the time .
and that wealth to virtualize the virtual reality , that people in the pre-industrial times needed bitter , because they didn &apos;t have anything .
they didn &apos;t have books .
or they didn &apos;t have photographics .
they had no mass media .
the only thing they had was their head .
and in that head , the memory took place .
the sioux indians didn &apos;t listen to sioux less than they were bow and arrow tasks , when the americans stopped being americans when they were assigning horses and horses .
in this head , knowledge was called , and with these virtual images , the imagination , it was just passed on knowledge .
and that &apos;s why it &apos;s so rooted in us that we can deal with virtuality so well .
the interesting thing about this is , if i can take a little trip .
yes , that &apos;s right .
the interesting thing about this is that at that time , the human being was media producers and medium itself at the same time .
now , if you think a little bit further .
what are media today ?
then you &apos;ll notice that there &apos;s been a change .
but that &apos;s what i &apos;ll talk about in a minute .
crucial tool of information training has always been stories .
not change and technology threatening the integrity of the ethnosphere , it &apos;s making . the ugly face of the rule .
shamanas , priests , so-called knowledge guards , were extra to keep knowledge in stories .
and we &apos;re still hanging out very , very strong stories today .
the author of the book the storytelling animal , jonathan gotchall , we &apos;re still banging a thousand hours a year with the recipe of stories .
that means for a child who has spent most of his life in the recipe of stories to the end of the grandlife .
now we think our love of stories depends on us as a child on the lap of our parents .
no , no , far missing .
this goes way back to the cultures of the pre-industrial times .
but for me , in the field of interactive media , as a particularly impressive thing , is that we &apos;ve moved through se in our biological memory , the ability to think nonlinear .
i brought you an example from the north american tribe of the nootka indian .
and the lives lived in the coastal region of british columbia .
and as you can see , it &apos;s a very island area , and you had to sort of navigate , get from island to island to get food .
and they did it with something called lead maps .
you may know that , if you &apos;re interested in it a little bit , from the australian peoples .
they have similar principles .
they don &apos;t have lead maps , but they &apos;ve used these kind of gene songlines , or they &apos;ve been using garbage strings .
and what &apos;s interesting about this is that the navigation and the topography of regions could be mapped over songs .
where they were subordinated by the language of subordinated rang .
that is , you navigated about sound and about rhythm .
and these sounds , and this rhythm , the geology , the topography of a region , and of course it also allowed you to defragment these songs and put them differently , and move back to the left , right , and also back to the output .
why don &apos;t we sing to get from top a to b ?
or if we go to the mountains of tibet , where i recently study a lot , you &apos;ll see the ugly face of the political dominance .
anyway , not to navigate .
what happened there ?
this is what happened to the genetic machine age .
we &apos;ve moved before in what we call the bird age .
it &apos;s the machine age , and it &apos;s happening , and it &apos;s the book , and it &apos;s the photooligraphy .
and that &apos;s what happened , is that we &apos;ve shifted the responsibility for our memories and our own production of our individual memories to external media .
in the book and in the picture .
so , unfortunately , we have a little bit to virtualize god .
virtuality suddenly has become alien to us , and has nothing to do with reality .
bruce brown , a famous design researcher at brighton university , has gone so far as to say that this mass media , he means the book and the picture , not the television , the internet , etc . , and so on , what we call the mass media today , has fossilized our memories and our ability to virtualize .
you know , the genocide , the physical extinction of people , is generally convicted , but the ethnocid , the destruction of people &apos;s lives , is not only convicted , but in general and many places as part of a developmental strategy .
let &apos;s make a little bit of intermediate .
from the bird age to the machine age .
what &apos;s influences our thinking and our memory ?
then these are faded influences of the pre-industrial cultures .
and they &apos;re more and more written over the centuries by the influences of the machine age .
that is , instead of remembering ourselves individually , we have standardized , widespread patterns of memories that we can hang our personal memories on .
we &apos;re not producing ourselves anymore .
we have an abstract language .
we don &apos;t think of it in images anymore , but we don &apos;t encode it in images anymore , but we encode it to you our language .
we &apos;ve gotten used to things happening linearly .
and you can &apos;t understand the suffering of tibetan if you haven &apos;t experienced it at the bottom level .
and we &apos;ve accepted linearity as a law , and there are only exceptions , like the non-linearity .
what we &apos;ve stayed with is the story telling .
still , we &apos;re very , very arrested to the storytelling as an information facility .
the question is , what &apos;s next ?
we had the voft age , we had the machine age , and we now describe what we call the cyber-age .
it sounds very spacey , and it sounds very much like science fiction , i know .
but these concepts of cyber-age , they bring us back these opportunities to rediscover our ability .
it &apos;s about virtuality , it &apos;s about non-linearity , it &apos;s about storytelling .
i want to explain this a little bit for a second .
there are technical concepts like augmented reality , which means augmented reality .
you can think of this cultural life web as an ethnosphere , and ethnosphere can be defined as the total sum of all the thoughts and dreams , myths of ideas , inspiration and intuitions that have been generated by the human imagination since the beginnings of consciousness .
i used to travel with a young colleague 6,000 miles from chengdu in west china , across southeast tibet to lhasa , and it wasn &apos;t until i got to lhasa that i saw the face behind the statistics that you hear of , 6,000 sacred monuments that were transformed into rubble and ash , 1.2 million people who were killed by the cades during the cultural revolution .
so if you look at google glasses , for example , it &apos;s a concept of what makes us recombine the virtual world with the real world , which is to recommend our affinity to virtualization , to feel the virtual as something ordinary , natural , is being addressed again .
another example is what we call virtual reality .
as crazy as this may sound in the context of my talk , we physically move into non-existing , virtual worlds , right after the holodeck model .
and other examples are the ambients , smart systems .
these are spaces that can respond intelligently to a human .
all of this requires the ability to accept our basic ability to accept virtuality as a real habitat .
i graduated , and i hope the video works , a very , very beautiful project , which is the bachelor work of michael burk , ann-kathrin krence , joris klause and jan-moritz garbage .
and the last two are also here today .
maybe you can stand up for a second so you can pause and talk to the two of them about the project .
and i brought this project with me as an example of how to address this archaic , cognitive model .
this young man &apos;s father was identified as a follower of the panchen lama .
the whole thing is a game , i have to say .
which , of course , is extremely opposed to the story , and it &apos;s a computer game .
and when i say computer game , you &apos;re very likely to have some people in front of any consoles , or that they &apos;re playing with some console in their hand .
anyway , they do it in there .
this is a game for outside .
and that &apos;s what &apos;s targeted to be that i &apos;m exploring the outside world , so that i &apos;m rediscovering the real world .
and this game connects the virtual world , which is the data that we produce with the real world .
i apologize that i have to cut so much .
and then you can explain that much better , and there &apos;s a lot more to it .
and that is , i &apos;m exploring a city by looking at which places have been positively or negatively tweeted .
that meant that during the chinese invasion , he was killed immediately .
and so i get a very different view from the city , a very different impression , which is that i see negative and positive zones of a city , and i get a very different virtual map of a very real city .
and we can look at that now .
ah , what you can see here , sorry , is another little explanation of what you &apos;re about to see .
of course , this virtual world lives in the walls of our cities , it &apos;s clear .
and with a kind of flashlight , we can see these virtual worlds .
so , i &apos;d like to summarize my talk , in the sense that the characteristics and the skills that we &apos;ve acquired from the voice-age , and that we &apos;ve come up with a little bit of a spill in the machine age , that the cyber age can be activated again with what we call the &quot; cyber age , &quot; and that , in this way , we can get through complex , technological , new products , not in the future , but actually get back to our roots .
thank you .
yes , i &apos;m very happy to be with you .
i &apos;ve just been asked whether this bag is a talking bag , and mine is going to talk .
he &apos;s not going to do that .
his uncle flew into the diaspora with her sacredness that brought people to nepal .
i &apos;m also going to resolve what &apos;s in there .
but i &apos;m just going to make it a little bit curious .
yes , children are naturally curious or should be curious , designers too .
i &apos;m a form of house , so , of course , i &apos;m also dealing with the subject of curiosity , and how does curiosity change our thinking again , and why do we maybe lose curiosity and have to rebump it , and so on and so forth .
this is a whole range of things that you &apos;re looking at next to the actual existence as a shape .
when professors get curious , they &apos;re often put into this kind of research semester .
and that &apos;s what i &apos;ve had in the last half a year .
a research semester on natural user interface design .
now , you &apos;re going to ask yourself , why do the whole shape begin to engage with such natural , archaic forms of communication , interaction and so on ?
and i &apos;m just holding one of these little devices up , because things are supposed to be more intuitive , more and more natural , more user-friendly , and you have to stop looking at what &apos;s actually natural for us humans , what &apos;s user-friendly or intuitive .
his mother was locked in as a punishment for -- to be wealthy for crimes .
and in the background , i &apos;ve been in the field of natural user interface design , so the next generation of human computing , where the human computer is in the context of how our tools or how the computer is changing from the computer to the sucessive to the digital assistant .
so i &apos;ve been busy doing this , when is it natural or intuitive ?
maybe there &apos;s a glimpse behind it .
why does this happen ?
so if we look at the evolution of our society , just briefly represented here , we &apos;re now moving from the third to the fourth generation of society or social form .
so , from modern to computer society .
every society is shaped by a primary medium .
at the beginning of the tribal society through language .
that means that they found themselves by talking a common language , they were able to communicate with each other , they moved into the same cave , or in other areas , and they &apos;ve created cities , or villages , and they &apos;ve created a kind of tribal society .
but the primary medium was the language , something very natural , something very vivid .
he was smuggled into jail at the age of two to hide under her rock , because she couldn &apos;t live without him .
you also had to learn , so no small child can talk from nature , but we learn it from sucessive and , of course , proportionately .
this was then dissolved by the ancient society and the first form of abstraction .
this was a huge outcry at the time , because , of course , you started manifest the living language in the form of writing , which is what fluid and alive is , i start and i start carried it in stone , and i manipulate it as well .
and depending on how i &apos;m carving and when i &apos;m carving , of course , it &apos;s a very different narrative than if there &apos;s a kind of living thing .
but sukessive then moved this script as a primary medium , got in .
then came the next generation that we actually live in today primarily .
this is the printed and printed writing with gutenberg and others .
at the time , it was just like a monkey &apos;s , where adel , klerus and others were saying , you &apos;re actually insane when people start reading , they want to talk to you afterwards , and that &apos;s completely fatal , of course .
and now we get to the next generation , and the exciting thing is , such a shift in generation is only every few hundred years , and we &apos;re really in this phenomenal period right now , that we &apos;re going to be doing this .
of course , that completely confuses us , because we see on the one hand the new media , social media , facebook , etc . , etc .
the nurse who did this brave thing was put into an educational camp .
with total transparency , which is the new thinking , which is banging on the old thinking , don &apos;t say that in the lasagne horse meat and the beef is no longer or other phenomena , which is , i just want to shrink it and want to do it .
and these two worlds are just banging up , new and old thinking .
the exciting thing about this is , if you look at this , this new society , this computer society , rejects very many mechanisms , principles and archaic paradigms from the tribal society .
now , not at the local level , but at the global level .
we &apos;ve understood that the weather is global .
that the theme of ecology is a global issue .
not if i think local ecologically here , and the neighbor thinks less ecologically , it doesn &apos;t work anymore .
that is , from the local village , it &apos;s actually become a global village with the same principles , of course , possible , to be intuitive , but also the total transparency .
as you knew in the village at the time , who has what &apos;s going on with whom and when , this is how it &apos;s happening today through this expansion of ourselves through these mobile findings at the global level .
be it that we know globally accumulate and accumulate faster and better and better .
one day , she came out of the forgiveness on a armband maos , and for seven years she had to go to a heavy job camp .
as it used to happen in the village .
so , in the background , i &apos;ve just been busy looking at this , what does it really mean , what &apos;s natural for us , what is it that we may have lost , but what is instinctive for us , so what is the difference ?
because a lot of times people come , they can &apos;t make it user-friendly so that everybody can deal with it .
so you have to deal with this , which means that , and not just change it , it &apos;s different , but it &apos;s better to do it .
and when , of course , it &apos;s kind of intuitive , and how can i influence it as a shape and make things so that they &apos;re a user-friendly , so they &apos;re possible to be intuitive , because then they &apos;re fun and they &apos;re easy to use .
you &apos;re going to be busy , even during the study , with the subject of perception and perceptual psychology .
and that &apos;s , of course , where you start and look and say , okay , i &apos;m just going to look inside .
and what does it really look like in there ?
so how do we work when we look in there ?
and what does it mean , of course , intuitively and how do our channels of perception work , and how does the cognitive processing work work ?
the suffering of tibet can be intolerable , but the triggering spirit of people is something unforgettable .
because steve jobs once said you need to understand understand how it works .
so you really have to look in detail , if i want to make something user-friendly or intuitive , which means that at the core .
and you can see that a is our seven senses , most people think we only have five , now it &apos;s even seven , and it &apos;s certainly coming in the near future to the next , aged sense , and as an extension of ourselves .
and looking at how we process information , how do we take information ?
to say , what is information ?
information is every difference that makes a difference .
a lot of people use the word , but they don &apos;t even know what it means in detail .
but i have to understand , at the core , in nature , when information becomes information , when it &apos;s going to know information and from information , so that i know how to do things afterwards , intuitively , or of course , manual .
and of course , how design affects perception .
we see this here , when i make things , i can make them confusing , like on the right , where i don &apos;t know what &apos;s salt and pepper , or i can sort of intuitively design them by showing things .
and in the end , we really have a choice : do we want to live in a monochromatic world of monotonia , or in a polychromatic world of diversity ?
so much more natural , which is in a vessel , but i kind of see right where salt and pepper is in it .
and when i say to someone , give me salt or pepper , they &apos;re going to think on the right where there is something in it .
and on the left , just intuitively access , and then hopefully i &apos;m hoping that there &apos;s no sugar in it , the salt is going to be there .
but also , our perception , how it deceives us .
for example , this perception in context .
the right circle looks bigger than the small one , although that &apos;s not the case , but they &apos;re just the same size , and yet our perception changes , depending on what context we put things in .
does anybody know what that is ?
come on .
pattern recognition should still work .
it &apos;s going to be more like my glasses .
the ethnosphere is the great legacy of humanity .
margaret mead , the great anthropologist , said before she died , that her greatest fear is that , as we move towards a thread , ungested , generic worldview , we would not only see the entire range of human imagination reduced in a confined way of thinking , but that one day we wake up from a dream , and we forgot that there have ever been other possibilities .
so it &apos;s a circle .
a second circle is already starting to correlate or associate certain similarities .
and then when i &apos;m going to stop a halboval , we suddenly don &apos;t see one more unit , which is circle , circle and , but we see one unit , we don &apos;t see more three parts , one circle , one circle , another .
this is what &apos;s called the gestalt law , or shape psychology , which is also affecting us in perception .
it &apos;s important for the designers , they usually have this in the first semester , the great gesture laws .
formal law of the closeness , gesture of the continuity and so on .
often in the third one , forget again .
but that &apos;s an essential component , if you want to make things very intuitively possible .
the next phenomenon , which is also very interesting about vision .
sounds very banal , but it &apos;s very exciting when you get closer to it .
and it &apos;s humbling to think that our species may have existed for 600,000 years .
so we have the eyes in the front , and now you think we &apos;re looking from the front to the back .
that &apos;s wrong .
you can see from the back to the front .
namely , they &apos;re projoling an assumption forward that they see something that they recognize , unprecedented circle .
that means we &apos;re going to test our vision first before we see it , put that back in the back of our device , to say , okay .
i &apos;ve got so much cognitive feedback , you &apos;ve tried something you want to see .
that &apos;s also there , and that comes back .
and then it goes back to the front , because the back doesn &apos;t trust the front , and says , well , you &apos;re really looking again , and sure if what you see is also what you want to see .
and then it goes back , and then it &apos;s actually just seen .
so a very , very exciting process of how certain things are going on , and what a millisecond space these things are happening .
the neolithic revolution that agriculture brought us , and at that moment , we were at the cult of the seeds , replacing the poetry of the shaman through the prose of the priesthood and creating hierarchy , specialization and surplus -- just 10,000 years ago , it happened .
i don &apos;t know who knows this picture .
there &apos;s exactly the same thing that i just described .
now , everybody from this pattern is trying to see something .
i don &apos;t know who recognizes what .
does anybody see anything ?
a dalmatiner , right .
once i &apos;ve seen this , it &apos;s a dalmatiner in there , you know .
you &apos;ll never forget it , because i &apos;m going to show you where the dalmatiner is .
now you see the dalmatiner .
and then on , you always see him now .
the modern industrial world as we know it is hardly 300 years old .
that is , i &apos;ve actually spoiled you now that you don &apos;t recognize patterns in there anymore , but i &apos;ve been conditioning them in a very short period of time to see this dog over and over again in this mutilated image .
and this is this projection of vision , feedback , vision .
now i know it , and now i &apos;m projoling forward that i see the dalmatiner .
i see the dalmatiner .
so , really , really exciting processes , which then , in this , yes , it &apos;s not really gray , but it &apos;s just going on in this brute mass .
does anybody know what three seconds is ?
long , yes .
that &apos;s our present .
so , it &apos;s always interesting to know as a designer .
if i know something takes three seconds for me to sort of go from the present to the past , i can also bridge very well waiting times , where i &apos;m going to do it by engaging someone with three seconds .
now , this surface story doesn &apos;t tell me that we have all the answers to the challenges that we face in the coming millennia .
he has to process that as a present .
then it goes into the past , and so i can bridge very elegant times , for example , on the computer , if i know this phenomenon .
what &apos;s going to take five milliseconds ?
yes , milliseconds .
it &apos;s also a very exciting phenomenon .
this is the time when you fall in love .
that means , apartment , if you know that now , pay attention to who you &apos;re looking at for a long time , because i don &apos;t take any election , what can happen to you .
and six milliseconds , also a very exciting phenomenon .
that &apos;s the time period of most of the perceptions that we have .
that means that the first impression is happening at a rapid rate of how we perceive things .
if we ask these myriad world cultures about the meaning of being human , they answer with 10,000 different voices .
and as we also see things , what we pay attention to , and how we sort of seek out against our environment , so that we can think about it accordingly .
of course , the gestures are not just about perceptions and neural processing , or cognitive sergonomy , but , of course , primarily about the subject of human-object .
so how does a human being deal with certain things ?
there &apos;s a product language of practical functions , so formal aspects or formalaesthetic aspects .
there are signature functions , where i know exactly where i need to grasp .
but there are also symbolic functions , why is it that someone can give you a little bit of a wash , where there &apos;s very little bit of money in it anyway , so horrendous amounts of money , even though it &apos;s not that practical ?
we &apos;re more likely to be at the symbolic level , at the significance level , which we &apos;re also , of course , busy as a form .
back to my actual theme of natural user interface and the subject , which is , of course , behind it , is usability .
usability always means , how can i get to a certain target , or how can a user in a certain context of use be effective , efficient and satisfying .
that &apos;s what the norm says about it .
and in this song , we &apos;re going to rediscover the opportunity to be what we are : people with full consciousness , who are aware of the importance of all people and gardens , to be able to thrive a space , and there are great moments of optimism .
how can i make something possible user-friendly ?
can i use that directly , or do i need a handbook , or do i need a corresponding training for it .
and less usable or usable is it .
that i do it differently , and i do it more nicely , doesn &apos;t mean that it &apos;s more maneuverable .
you also have to understand that .
and if you look at the software that we &apos;ve just seen , you &apos;ll also understand why ninety-nine percent of our software today is not intuitive or not based on the name of i-pad in many areas or i-phone areas , even though it &apos;s a lot more intuitive than classic software .
now , intuitive usability is not only since apple is a fundamental economic factor , a fundamental factor of success , if i just want to make technological devices available to human beings .
why ?
because we usually , through this new kind of usability , which is the natural user íterfaces , for example , five times faster on the average of our goal .
you have to imagine that , if you do something of the classic softer , it takes five hours , and with this new kind of natural software , you only have one hour .
here &apos;s a photograph i took at the north end of the baffin islands when i went to the narwhal hunt with inuits , and this man , olaya , told me a wonderful story of his grandfather .
that doesn &apos;t mean that you &apos;re probably going to be able to go home for probably four hours , but you &apos;re going to be your employer , or someone &apos;s going to come up with you for the four hours .
but i want to say that for us , of course , it &apos;s a corresponding increase in performance to make certain things .
so if we put ourselves back in the software area , the first command line interfaces , which were very abstract , where it took months to deal with these systems .
and then the next ones that have already worked with the nem neural model , or mental model , like the software of eergonoma , which is that you would have an idea of something , the metaphor , the metaphor of a desktop , to make the computer usable .
so not more zeros and ones or cryptic codes , but a metaphor .
this made it much more user-friendly , but of course it &apos;s much better .
the next generation of the graphical user interface is already working a lot more with behavior .
so , as a form , i &apos;m much more likely to form behavior than what it looks like .
this is also a paradigm shift .
that all of a sudden , i &apos;m going to look more and more important to success , and the usability is going to be an application .
the canadian government hasn &apos;t always gone very well with the inuit , and over the course of the 50 years in the establishment of our regime , they were forced to move into settlements .
and then if i go one step further into this natural user interfaces , where i , by voice , by touch , by touch , by gesture , by mouse and cursor , i &apos;m even faster and even more immediate .
but that also leads me back to the point , when do things get more intuitive ?
when you get more intuitive , and then i have to put my little friend back here and see , what does that mean from the point of view of cognition , when is it really intuitive now ?
and that &apos;s always intuitive for us humans , when i have to think about it very little .
so apparently , he doesn &apos;t like to think , but he does it in proportion .
the less i kind of think about it , the more intuitive it is .
and what does that mean to the designer ?
that means , if we look at the fact that we can transmit existing models from one to another , like the metaphor , i can use that as a shape .
that means that i can transmit an intuitive human action model to a software so that the software can make much more user-friendly .
and of course , the question is , what is the most intuitive action scheme of us humans , and now i &apos;ve been saying it .
this old man &apos;s grandfather refused .
this is the so-called osit-model .
that &apos;s what each of us uses , and osit is an acronym , and it stands for more oriental , selective , informed , transaction .
that &apos;s what each of you does all the time , but it makes it unconscious , and it &apos;s kind of intuitive , or partly instinctive .
the model is already being exploded in the womb , and it &apos;s interculturally , so it works around the world at young and old , and it &apos;s used all the time , without most of us knowing that this model is there .
osit osit itself is going to be about 50 to 70,000 times of activity ever after activity , so in the sleep , you &apos;ve found that it &apos;s going to be less frequent than the day .
i can now orient this mental model of action , select , inform , transfer to an interaction system .
and through this kind of transmission , much like the metaphor of the desktop , now not a metaphor of a physical object , but a metaphor of an action pattern , an action principle .
and this is on a higher grail of user friendliness than the transmission of a classic metaphor , which is the desktop .
and if i transfer this now , for example , where i &apos;m orienting as a overview , selecting as a choice , informing in the trap , it &apos;s going to come up to me , i can look at it in detail , and yes , transaction means that i can throw it somewhere or send it in and buy it and so on .
then i can transmit the whole thing .
it &apos;s the symbol of all of what we are and what we &apos;re capable of as an amazingly knowledgeable species .
the family that was afraid of his life took off all the guns and all the tools .
i &apos;m going to try this through one example .
you know , everybody &apos;s eaten pies .
supervision : now i &apos;m kind of interacting with the object , can zoom back out , zoom in .
i can get the whole overview , and now i can filter on this , and i can say , just show me all the chocolate things , for example .
and all of a sudden , a interface , which is much more intuitive and much more natural .
because that i can grasp things like the bits , touch them , and they come up to me is much more natural than if you can , you know , hierarchically organized websites or other mechanisms , in a way , make these things available .
imagination is more important than knowledge , and with that phrase , i &apos;d also like to conclude to give a and again the clue , designers have to think differently to come up with new solutions , and in that sense , i thank you very much for your attention and attention .
i want to help you with a very particular aspect of curiosity .
the first one , when you &apos;re a kid , when you &apos;re a baby , is that you take care of what excerpts you have , right ? and depending on whether your parents have allowed you to play and touch more or less in the pottery , the more , in a way , your curiosity , of course , is being wounded .
and curiosity doesn &apos;t learn .
now , you have to know that the inuit is not afraid of the cold , they used it to their advantage .
that &apos;s why all of you who are here and are curious , in fact , people who have a property that you can &apos;t learn .
i &apos;m going to talk about basically doing this whole environmental discussion , world demise , 40 years of clubof-rome , in quality .
and there &apos;s a central point to this .
and it &apos;s attached to phosphorus .
give pee a chance .
every day , they give plus-scale about two grams of phosphorus , and every day they have to take two grams of phosphorus .
otherwise they can &apos;t have teeth .
they can &apos;t store energy .
you can &apos;t have bones .
we could only glide as amorphous mollusks across the world &apos;s ocean .
the glides of their sleds were originally made out of fish that were wrapped in caribbean skin .
in fact , if we don &apos;t take a phosphorus and give it off .
and the amazing thing is that we &apos;re looking at something that &apos;s actually self-understanding , but it &apos;s not like that .
because everybody is talking about energy , but nobody is talking about the phosphorus problem .
the phosphorus problem is much more critical .
we depend on two countries .
we only have phosphorus for two years , and already , through the phosphorus mining , there &apos;s a lot more uranium in the world than it is in all the nuclear plants .
in the last 20 years alone , 50,000 tons of uranium has been distributed in our fields in germany .
and that &apos;s what we &apos;re recording .
it makes leukemia in children .
and we think we would protect the environment if we &apos;re a little less harmful .
the man &apos;s grandfather was not afraid of the arctic night or the hurting storm .
so , for example , the environment , is less driving cars .
shake the environment , make less waste .
shake the environment , use less energy .
but that &apos;s not a protection .
that &apos;s as if i were to say , shake your child , just beat it three times instead of five times .
that &apos;s just a little less destruction .
if we think about it from the weighing to the bathing , our whole earth is going to be a cemetery once or later .
that &apos;s just how to think about weighing .
and the most important thing is to look at the ground , first of all .
in the soil , over six percent of the carbon is stored .
he swallowed out , put his pants down from sea fur and defeated into his hand , and when the feces started to freeze , he shaped them into the shape of a brass .
right now , we &apos;re growing corn and losing between 11 and 30 kilograms of 30 tons per hectare , or on the square meter .
that means we &apos;re losing the ground about five thousand times more than reformed .
we can , of course , look at the waste problem .
and everything is package or content .
for example , in openbach , on the domestic waste , 20 percent of the waste is windmills by now .
and because we get older , the wind gets bigger .
that &apos;s all of them in the pre-wind .
yes ?
a baby needs about six thousand wind .
we could reduce that by 10 percent , of course , but what does that do ?
he sprayed saliva on the sides of the fectal knife , and when it was frozen completely , he amazed a dog with it .
this is being balanced in china in a second .
this is completely inherent .
so the question is , how do we deal with these winds ?
here &apos;s one of the proof , by the way , that men are not pigs .
let me tell you .
because the phosphorus is given in the pigs over the solid ingredients of excrement .
people about the urine .
yes .
so , men can &apos;t be pigs .
because that &apos;s the evidence , right ?
he included the dog and improvised a dish , took the dog skeleton and improvised a sled , put a different dog in and escaped the ice sheets with the fecalian knife on the belt .
traditionally , we think in the environmental discussion , we &apos;re too many in the world .
and if you tell the people that , if you tell the people to exist , that would be better , you wouldn &apos;t be there , they &apos;ll get refined and hostile .
and so someone like al gore , one of our great heroes , there &apos;s nothing more important than stabilizing the human population .
in israel , if you save a human life , you save the earth .
here it says , the more you kill , the better .
yes .
the first question is , are we really too many ?
if you look at the ants , the weight of the ants on earth , the ants weigh about four times more than we humans .
i could also take termites , but in the united states , no one likes termites in so far , even though they &apos;re vegetarians .
that means that ants weigh much more than we do .
so you can do something out of nothing .
and because they work a lot harder physically than we do , and because they live only three to six months , they &apos;re in their weight , in the energy consumption , a little 30 billion people .
that means we &apos;re not too many , we &apos;re too stupid , right ?
and where you see how far away we are , what we really wanted to do and could , and how sad we are , that we are on earth at all , you can see that , for example , openly has a program , up to 20 , you want to be climaneutral here , right ?
you can only be climate-neutral if you don &apos;t exist , right ?
the only chance .
have you ever seen a climate-neutral tree ?
yes ?
one ?
that means that all of our intelligence means that we want to be stupid as trees , right ?
yes ?
and this , in many ways , is a symbol of the resistance of the inuit and all the indigenous people in the world .
no tree is carbon neutral .
luckily not , yes ?
there &apos;s no overpopulation problem in trees .
there are still six billion trees in the amazon alone .
you &apos;ve heard about some of the overpopulation problems of trees ?
that means that all of our intelligence means that we want to be stupid as trees .
and where you see , even in something like demeter , the most striking bio-agriculture , it doesn &apos;t allow our own metabolic products to go back .
every year , we lose three million tons of phosphorus that really had to go back into circles .
and we &apos;re too many of them .
just about it .
the canadian government gave back the inuit in april of 1999 the complete control over an area bigger than california and texas combined .
that means we feel so guilty about the earth that we say , there &apos;s no bio-landing , no bioland , no natural et-progression system , and as they all say , that allow our own excrements to go back .
isn &apos;t that sad ?
so we &apos;re too many .
it certainly makes sense to be less harmful in terms of oil use .
but where are we useful ?
we &apos;re trying to minimize our ecological footprint , but it &apos;s about having a big footprint that &apos;s useful .
we want to be good for society , we want to be good for the economy , but when it comes to the environment , the highest , not to be there , right ?
nullemissions , right ?
you can only have nullemissions if you &apos;re not there .
even if you shooted yourself now , you would have emissions .
and just as the biosphere has been highly rejected , this has happened with the ethnosphere -- just at even greater speed .
it &apos;s our new home country , and it &apos;s called nunavut .
so you can &apos;t solve that at all .
we can do it differently .
we can regain our nutrients .
we &apos;re doing agriculture in brazil , where we &apos;re going to get the nutrients back .
we can directly get nutrients back in agriculture in this way .
we do this in china , for example , where we take the waste of it directly .
in china , a tutor is still called a honeypot today , so to speak , right ?
and in our western world , we were always too stupid to bring our nutrients back .
that is , the whole western civilization-story is that the city has only always taken over , but never given back to the farmers .
and by doing that , the cities had to grow more and more , because the farmers went to the cities , and the cities had to go further and further to get their nutrients .
it &apos;s an independent area . they &apos;re all controlling minerals .
that &apos;s why all the western rich people are always expanded until they haven &apos;t done the infrastructure , and then they &apos;re imploded .
yes ?
in china , it was different .
it was a fraceless civilization , over five thousand years , because you were always able to bring the nutrients back .
even today , when you &apos;re invited to eat in china , you &apos;re expecting for the food that you &apos;re going to stay until you &apos;re looking for the toilet .
because it &apos;s unfriendly to go and take the nutrients .
they were asked to eat them , not for nutrient theft .
that means you can see on the internet how to get the nutrients back .
the really nice thing is , if you do that , which is to create agriculture , biogas , on a hectare of five thousand people in favelas , a farmer can produce about a thousand-thousand-dollar farmer and wait the plant with it , chickens and pigs , and ducks and vegetables and fish .
and the great thing about this is that the crime rate in the favelas goes back over ninety-nine percent .
an astonishing example , like a nation , a state that can seek and achieve review with its residents .
so we don &apos;t have to control people , to be really bad .
we can support them to be good .
this is , of course , high-tech agriculture , but the facilities carry themselves .
the byproduct is clean water .
and they &apos;re so designed by the design that a farmer can just manage them .
that is , the crime rates go back .
and none of these facilities , we &apos;ve now built over a hundred and a half in the last 20 years , none of these facilities have ever been saboted .
you could just throw a liter of aluminum in so easily , and then the plant would be ruined for years .
it &apos;s not happening .
that is , we don &apos;t have to control people , be very bad at being possible .
and finally , i think it &apos;s quite obvious , at least for those of us who have traveled to these distant goals of the earth , to realize that they &apos;re not at all .
we can support them to be good .
that means we have to get phosphorus back .
and by the way , if you want to do anything from that , you write down , in germany , the best way to do it is to all of the sewage facilities in france .
unfortunately , they don &apos;t in openbach , but maybe they can help the france a little bit .
because the frankfurter facility could best regain the phosphorus .
and it has to go back .
we see that phosphorus is really critical .
and we see that it &apos;s going through .
we &apos;ve been in holland now for three years .
the dutch government has explained that they will be the first country in the world to reclaim phosphorus .
they are the countries of someone &apos;s home .
but we need that overall .
you know , there are two countries that control almost seventh percent of the world &apos;s phosphorus .
and opec is a bunch of orphanages .
that &apos;s six-and-twenty countries that control 40 percent of the oil supplies .
and we &apos;re going to be able to replace the oil with other energy carriers .
but the phosphorus is not going to be replaced .
it &apos;s not about making the existing a little less bad , it &apos;s about making something right .
and most of all , it &apos;s asking what the right thing to do .
that means it &apos;s about efficiency , not about efficiency .
of course , in holland , it &apos;s easier to understand , because in holland , the country is built on flowers .
they represent parts of the human imagination that go back in the past times , and for all of us , the dreams of these children , like the dreams of our own children , become part of the geography of hope .
yes ?
imagine , for example , if your wife is sad , if you &apos;ve annoyed her , and you come in with 50 roses .
completely inefficient .
but really , very effectively , yes ?
or take a lip pen .
a woman in germany eats about six comma three kilograms in her lifetime .
here .
that &apos;s not exactly the science , because we don &apos;t know how much is being kissed off .
but a lip pen , even in this illumination , i can tell you , is completely inefficient , but really effective , right ?
one of the things that &apos;s beautiful in life is not efficient .
what we end up trying to do at national geographic is we believe that politicians never do anything .
that &apos;s why not resource efficiency , but efficiency .
asking , what &apos;s the right thing to do ?
not to burn the sewage mud a little bit better and deposit it and lose all the materials for cycles in the burn system , but to ask , first of all , how do you close cycles ?
imagine mozart efficiently .
yes ?
when i invite you to dinner and say , yes , there &apos;s a tablet with open tastes and a glass of water in it .
wonderful , right ?
that &apos;s efficient .
everything that &apos;s beautiful in life is not efficient .
if you fall in love with somebody , efficient ?
we believe that polemics -- we believe that polemics are not persuasive , but we believe that storytelling can change the world , and so we &apos;re probably the best institution for storytelling in the world . our website gets 35 million hits every month .
yes ?
that is , all that matters in life is not about saving , avoiding , reducing .
the whole environmental discussion .
we tell people , oh yeah , you don &apos;t have an environmental awareness in the south .
no , throwing away is just the right thing , right ?
at every place you throw away , from , yes , you create opportunities for life .
but the wrong things .
if you throw away the wrong things , you have a waste problem .
in how we think from the north .
there &apos;s a disadvantaged footprint there .
156 nations send our tv channel .
when they walk , yes , every footprint destroys the ground .
because the soil is going to die off , and the wind and the water is going to wash away .
but if you &apos;re in italy , every footprint means that the water is longer in the meadow .
so , it &apos;s about creating a big footprint that becomes a wetland .
not guilt management .
we say sustainability in germany .
yes ?
but if i ask you , how do you do that with your wife ?
so what do you say ?
sustainable .
our magazines are read by millions .
then i say , heartfelt , right ?
that &apos;s the minimum .
so not saving , giving , avoiding .
every waste is nutrient .
and it &apos;s a lust when you see in italy , the people in the high bow , and they shoot out of the car , and they do it .
because , you know , this is a fun thing to do .
it &apos;s a form of re4 behavior , right ?
you can show , i was there .
but with the right design , there we go .
for example , we &apos;ve developed an ice cream package , which is at room temperature , liquid .
no biologist would , for example , claim that 50 percent or more of all species are just before the extinction , because it &apos;s just not true . and yet , this -- the most apocalyptic scenario in the field of biological diversity -- is barely equivalent to what we know as the most optimistic scenario in the field of cultural diversity .
and we &apos;re doing a series of travels to the ethnosphere where we &apos;re taking our audience to places of such cultural wonders , that they &apos;re being blinded by the one we &apos;ve seen , and hopefully , one by one , they &apos;re going to take the central revelation of anthropology : that this world has deserved to exist in different ways , that we can find a life opportunity in a truly multicultural pluralistic world where the wisdom of all people can contribute to our common well-being .
they can throw them away where they go and stand .
in two hours , it builds up all over the place .
and it contains seeds of rare plants so that they can throw away the biodiversity .
that means we &apos;re useful , not less harmful .
so there are two cycles .
not to be all composable , of course .
a tv machine or a washing machine , which you only use , you don &apos;t use .
only the things that veile , like shoes , like brakes , like brakes , like cars , they have to be in a biological system .
the things that are only used are in technical systems .
but today we &apos;re just talking about the biological systems .
thank you .
yes ?
for example , the sneaker , right ?
very direct advertising , not for the company puma per se , but for the fact that they &apos;re now helping this company make these products successful .
because we don &apos;t make things more free from us .
yes ?
so , if i invite you to eat and say , this is free from crochet , it doesn &apos;t help you .
no , we realize what &apos;s inside .
positive .
so not like detox .
not toxic in it .
what i &apos;m going to show you , first of all , as quickly as possible , is the basic work , a new technology that we &apos;ve taken over from microsoft as part of a single year ago , which is seadragon , and it &apos;s an environment where you can either handle local or remote with vast amounts of visual data .
it &apos;s all that &apos;s in it , it &apos;s useful .
these are the first shoes that you can put the cavalier launch on the pedestrian light , and the rubber can go into biological circles , right ?
all of it is composable of it .
and of course , if we can do it , we can do it for adidas , for nike , for hennes and mauritz and all the textile industry .
and that &apos;s half the world &apos;s wastewater problems that are caused by the textile industry .
that &apos;s why they &apos;re helping with this , they &apos;re asking people .
hey , puma , are you really serious ?
because they &apos;ve changed the chairman twice now .
and i &apos;m not so sure that they &apos;re really here .
so , help me with this a little bit .
we see many , many gigabytes of digital photographs here , which you can get seamlessly and continuously , wasteful , rearranging in any way .
but it goes .
yes .
that &apos;s what &apos;s just been shown .
that &apos;s it .
we can do things now so that when they veile , when they break , they can go into biological cycles .
technical cycles are the same .
there &apos;s a direct renamesy system for this .
this is the first ecological backpack , in fact , to go back into the cycle .
that too , so in any store , you can get things back .
if you come up with that , right ?
and it doesn &apos;t matter how much information we look at , how big these collections are or how big the images are .
do you remember the winds ?
now , when it &apos;s garbage .
all over the place , these winds are rum , almost .
in the countries where people come to money .
it &apos;s on the front of the deponia , but it &apos;s also on the landscape , right ?
if we change the plastics so that it can go into biological systems , if we change the water storage , inside , that you can just go back to cellulosic base , you can plant hundreds of trees with a baby in israel or in tunisia .
yes ?
just when you take these winds , you shrink them , sterilize them and take the powder to plant trees .
so the baby is carbon positive for all of life , from the beginning .
so , we don &apos;t need to be climate-neutral , we can be climate positive .
most of you are digital photographs of a camera , but this is , for example , a scan of the library of congress , and it &apos;s in a space of 300 megaps .
it &apos;s kind of a behavioral poop print .
yeah , so to speak .
yes ?
we can do that .
we can reinvent everything again .
i started an institute to do this .
there &apos;s a lot of people working there , and they can all get involved .
there &apos;s an extra club in there , cradle to cradle , where anyone can join .
so no longer saving , giving , avoiding , reducing , no guilt management , but intelligent waste .
does it make you curious ?
it doesn &apos;t matter , because the only thing that can restrict the power of a system like this is the number of pixels on your screen at any moment . it also has a very flexible architecture .
thank you .
the work of the interpreter .
music as a language .
in the description of my talk , i &apos;m writing that as an interpreter , i &apos;m a translator , which is in the english word , you know .
interprets are translators of written notes in clinical music .
that , as a translator , you don &apos;t just transfer the word for word into a different language , but you also have to understand the deeper sense of words and wortzusm , so that it makes a meaningful translation , everyone who has to do it with foreign languages .
already from german to english can require more knowledge , given that if you &apos;re going to be about poetry or even about poetry .
it &apos;s very strange , but for layman , what we do with our music language .
as an interpreter of a piece of music , i first have just the written notes .
you think the composer has written into the notes exactly everything that he &apos;s thought of .
this is a whole book , an example of non-image data .
in fact , the notes are very vague and unaccurate .
these notes are about as accurate or unprecisely , as a verbal , although very seemingly commute , very accurate , description of a landscape .
because in this verbal landscape description , the fragrance of flowers is not to smell , to only anticipate the degree of the green , not to hear the sacks of the wind , not to feel .
that is , the interpreter has to translate this unprecedented response of the emergency language into another , which is audible , concrete , non-verbal music language .
today , i want to translate to you what i otherwise translate to musical , so interpreting , into a verbal language again .
so basically , translation of translation .
that &apos;s why i prefer to do it in german , because if i had to translate it into english again , it would be equally significant for me to translate the translation of translation .
so the music , for me , works as much as the spoken language .
the notes that are noted have the function of the letters of a script .
so it &apos;s not enough to just learn to read notes and to press the keyboards on the piano or the right spot on a violin string .
this is bleak house of thickens . every column is a chapter .
because that would be just the letters that you &apos;ve learned to paint .
the meaning of the letters is that it &apos;s only when you can understand the language .
so for the learning process of music , you need at least as long as spoken language .
now , there &apos;s also a degree of whether you &apos;re learning it for the use , just passively understands , or you can also speak actively , to the musical mother &apos;s language .
the work of the interpreter starts similar to the work of a theater director .
after you &apos;ve first chosen to play a piece , because you &apos;re excited about it , you &apos;re first exploring backgrounds of composition .
you collect information about the play in the secondary literature .
you read in the letters , the billboards , the notes , or whether there are words , thoughts of the composer themselves .
you study the works that he composed before and after .
you compare them .
to prove that it &apos;s really a text , and not a picture , we can do something like this to really show that this is a real representation of texting and no image .
the motivation to write it .
how and what did he feel ?
how were its circumstances of life , like the society and politics ?
that &apos;s all i &apos;m interested in .
you think into that time by looking at , for example , contemporary images , or reading literature .
but over time , as an interpreter , you also have a rich knowledge for the composer that you play more and more often , and it makes you easier to think into it and feel it .
the composer becomes increasingly the friend that you live with .
his cause of writing the piece is increasingly becoming more and more about my personal cause of playing it .
now , since the notes are anything but an accurate record of the cause of the composer , it &apos;s just a framework , i &apos;m now applying this framework to restore it with meaning and meaning .
i then say , in my own words , what could be written between this framework .
and the key indicator of this is the extinction of languages .
maybe this is an artificial way to read an e-book .
i &apos;m going to explain what these sounds might mean .
now for me and for the composer at that time , and what they might mean for him today .
every note , every phrase gets a sense of it , because i feel it myself , because it comes out of my own personal now .
it has to be coherent to me in this room and now , otherwise i can &apos;t convince my audience that this is my cause .
it &apos;s a very happy concert over and over again , if i can have the experience , the piece that i &apos;ve been working in advance for so long to experience how new .
how to experience a happy new day over and over again , despite the same rituals of life , getting up , breakfast , going to work , so i do the same piece over and over again and over again .
i &apos;ve gotten older a day , and i &apos;ve changed seasons , and my pulse goes slower at night than in the morning , in a concert room , it takes longer for the sound to come back than at home .
i take the audience &apos;s breathing , consciously or unconsciously .
all of this is affecting me , and all of this is affecting my experience with the composition .
it &apos;s wonderful also , when i &apos;m standing on the stage with a duo partner , and we have the same wavelength .
i wouldn &apos;t recommend it .
and then the same thing happens in a good , friendly conversation .
you bring a new idea in , and that &apos;s how it &apos;s answered with a reaction .
it &apos;s exciting , because then things that we haven &apos;t tried that way , and what you can &apos;t sample .
it &apos;s great fun to make music in this way , and then you as the audience have experienced how music communicates alive .
so every concert is a different concert .
i &apos;m never going to play the way i do at that moment .
i can &apos;t play the same way in 20 years today .
that &apos;s where i &apos;m going to have more life experience than today , and so on my palette of music sounds , i &apos;m going to have a lot more color nuances , emotions and feelings than today .
i &apos;m sure i &apos;m going to throw out some color pots , but i &apos;m going to get new ones .
i have a nice concrete example of this .
this is a more realistic case . this is a copy of the guardian .
it was on a piano curriculum for music students in my beloved old teacher , professor jürgen ude , a famous beethoven specialist , concert pianist and longevity professor of music college here in stuttart .
unfortunately , i was too young that he was already emerged when i finally started studying .
but i was very lucky to meet him at a very early age of 13 , and so i was on his classes at the time .
i was seventh when i was back in one of his classes , and i played the last of the four ballads of chopin , a late piece .
he asked me what was the introduction of this ballad for me .
this is such a contract part .
and in my youth , i said , expectation .
and he was smiling , and he was like , you know ?
that has to be the difference in aging .
because for me , it means memory .
every big picture is the beginning of a section .
he was already over sixty .
well , with seventh , you have dreams , but you don &apos;t have any significant memories .
i play the play again every few years today , and it has changed for me , even though it hasn &apos;t changed a single note .
every time it &apos;s exciting , because over and over , i read something new out .
one example of this from a very different area . monet painted the seerosis x times .
it &apos;s always the same garden , but in different daytime , in different light .
he translated the seerosis in a different way , as he saw it , as they were working on him at that moment .
his personal impressions of the seerosis .
the x-time interpretation of a piece is this comparable .
by now , i &apos;m also older than chopin at the age of two and a half years old when he wrote the piece .
and that really gives you the pleasure and the good experience of reading a real paper copy of a magazine or a newspaper , which is a kind of medium with multiple scales .
he lived only nine and a half years .
and it &apos;s important to me to look back into the notes , even though i mean to be able to memorize them .
to give twins , right with the composer .
because the notes are the only connection directly to him .
especially when he &apos;s died , he &apos;s already died .
now , how do you start talking the language of music ?
i said , you know , it takes about as long as spoken language .
now , the music class often is that you learn how to read the notes .
you &apos;re basically learning to read first before you &apos;re just talking a word .
you learn to find the notes on the instrument .
we also did something in the corner of this particular issue of the guardian .
and then when all the fingers are in time and right as it is in the notes , then you get notes that sound like music together .
when the error happens , the student gets the next difficult piece .
it &apos;s hardly talked about interpretation in the beginning class .
well , there &apos;s a presto on the front , that &apos;s a fast piece .
lento , slowly .
loud and quiet signs , f and b , etc .
most of you know that .
but even if you translate those numbers , it &apos;s still just something technical .
and it &apos;s still not an interpretation .
i wonder .
we &apos;ve designed a false display with very high resolution , which is much higher than a normal ad , and we &apos;ve added additional content to it .
i wonder that you often forget something very elementary .
that , to make music on the instrument , you should do your own musical and feel there before .
that &apos;s singing .
a child who didn &apos;t learn singing , because he didn &apos;t pretend the parents , he &apos;s not going to do it himself .
this is like talking learning .
it &apos;s necessary to have its own experiences and ideas of music , and then to get it through another way , which is an instrument , to sound .
people who have never singed have never felt instantly with their own body , as it is to make a sound .
designing a phrase with his own breath .
because the music instrument is the extension of our bodies .
our vocal chords to sing , our hands and feet to dance .
if you want to see the functions of this car , you can see them here .
so the hammerheads in the piano are the sequel of my fingers .
the melody comes out of the healthy and the rhythm from the dance .
the constant narrative today with music is not promoting .
you don &apos;t need to make music yourself if it gets boring .
no longer do you need to whistle or sing a song .
every one of your own music is made up when you &apos;re constantly sucked out with music .
sure , there are some of you who say yes , but what do you do when i can &apos;t sing ?
i ask you , can &apos;t you sing , a , because you think you can &apos;t sing ?
or b , because they haven &apos;t learned to sing ?
it &apos;s not too late for both of them to start trying to figure out whether they can &apos;t do it , or learn how to use these little muscles that put in the vocal chords .
or other models , or even technical specifications .
because you can train that .
or c , because they &apos;ve been told that they &apos;re unsubmersible .
and i ask , how skilled was this diagnosis ?
have you already got a second or third opinion , as you say today beautifully ?
or d , you don &apos;t like music , and therefore you want to have nix to do with it .
what i would regret , though , is that music is a beautiful , communicative thing .
but maybe you can also change them .
well , you see , in all cases , no one has to be a viewing candidate .
but please don &apos;t say , i don &apos;t understand any of the classical music .
i can &apos;t tell if it &apos;s good or bad .
and this really captures these ideas to create these constraints for the available place on the screen .
i answer that , but i &apos;m sure you can tell if you like it or not .
because i don &apos;t think somebody says , i don &apos;t know if it tastes me , because i can &apos;t cook .
so , you don &apos;t get to eat , just because you can &apos;t cook .
so you don &apos;t have to get into classical music , because you don &apos;t play an instrument .
listen consciously , and tell you whether it tastes you or not .
whether or not the music is too sweet to you .
tell you what you feel .
over time , they also get claims , and they want to have some more spices there , or even taste fine differences .
now , why do i ask my audience that it &apos;s actively listening ?
because the music is a language , and a language is there to communicate .
when each of you was born in this room , there were 6,000 languages spoken on earth .
we hope that this doesn &apos;t mean pop-ups and other nonsense anymore -- it shouldn &apos;t be necessary .
an artwork that you never look at has no force to work .
the food that was cooked by a chef or a chef has to be eaten and not only looked at or exchange recipes .
so please listen when a music is played .
it &apos;s not just a nice soundboard .
if in an environment where the adults are actively making music , or at least they &apos;re actively listening to music , it &apos;s very easy for a music teacher to ask , what color is your flower ?
can you play them in blue now ?
and the child plays , after a memorial , instead of a red flower before , a blue flower .
and this sounds very different from before .
and that was the very first beginning of a very musical expression .
so the first step to interpretation .
of course , the mapping is one of the really obvious applications for a technology like this .
and what happens when you play a piece today that was originally written a hundred , two hundred , three hundred years ago ?
and by now , the instruments have evolved .
there was no piano at the time of bach as an instrument .
it just wasn &apos;t invented yet .
i think the stream would have been thrilled if he had the soundscape of the modern piano .
i can today make the noises that the stream has had on the modern wing sound , which a baroque cembalo can &apos;t do .
it &apos;s also known by beethoven that he heard more than he had already become deaf .
today , a modern orchestra is able to play everything that an orchestra refused to be unplayful at the time .
so the composers depend on us interprets that reinvent the pieces again .
so that you can hear what you &apos;ve just imagined in the mind .
and i really don &apos;t want to spend a lot of time here , except to say that we &apos;re going to contribute to this area .
and also , what you would think in the mind today .
or what i &apos;m thinking about today , because what you might have thought .
thank you .
you know what envy is ?
have you ever been neither ?
and what did that feel like ?
shattered .
i have a friend who drives a passerati .
and when i come , with my little v piesel and i , you know , that feeling comes up .
i &apos;m going to shoot something through my head .
but these are all the streets in the u.s. .
i say , ulf , what do you need to have a big car for ?
now , that loses half of his value in the first year .
and in fact , you work much less than i do .
why do i have to afford a little car like this ?
and then i come to mind immediately , which is unfair .
it &apos;s against justice .
and as i say the word &quot; justice , &quot; that unpleasant feeling is gone .
our organism has invented a great way to make such unpleasant feelings as envy just to make it disappear .
you can also try that with words like revenge or winning or something like that .
i want to explain something to you today with this mechanism , or bring something that you &apos;re unconsciously familiar with .
overwhelmed at the top of the arduous picture of nasa .
the mechanism comes from the lie .
but don &apos;t think about the lie , as you may have heard , when people say , no one has the intention to build a wall .
and then tossing rocks so that he closes them up .
you can see in this lie , the liar itself doesn &apos;t believe what he says .
it &apos;s very easy to check that it &apos;s very different in the sense .
he &apos;s just deceiving you and not himself .
no , the lie that i &apos;m talking about has to do with the fact that they deceive themselves .
they need this lie to keep a lie of life in order to sustain a self-deception .
they can make them less easy , yes , examine , or collapse .
they need time .
now , let &apos;s pull out something else .
from that time , an anecdote is speaking that you may know .
the spanish painter pablo picasso once portrayed a woman .
this woman then complained that the portrait wouldn &apos;t look like her .
picasso replies , just wait .
they &apos;re getting more and more similar .
at this point , and if you laugh , you can see how important this lie is and how much time you need to learn something that artists can tell us very well .
because artists have a disrupted relationship with lying .
the artist shares something to you , and especially this lady , which she doesn &apos;t see when she just looks in the mirror .
the artist shares something to you in such a portrait that you &apos;re only going to be familiar with when you look at this artwork over and over again .
then this unpleasant feeling disappears , because it doesn &apos;t look like you , and it &apos;s getting more and more like you .
this is actually live on the internet now . you can check it out .
here you have this mechanism where we can use the lie as a great invention for stabilizing our lives .
and it &apos;s not just in art , it &apos;s also in volcanoes , in which in mythology , it comes back in stories .
you may know this idea of the lady who looked in the mirror every morning and asked him , who &apos;s the most beautiful one in the country ?
one day , this mirror says , yes , there &apos;s a more beautiful one .
behind the seven mountains and so on .
and you also know how much hostility comes out of that true origin , even the mirror can &apos;t lie , comes out of that true origin .
but we should just be familiar with the fact that you can &apos;t tell a woman that there &apos;s a more beautiful somewhere else .
here it is necessary to bring what we understand under politically correctness to it over and over again .
we need this lie at this point that keeps us in deception , without which we can &apos;t live .
we have not only in art , in the folk poetry , but also in science , such great lies .
this is a project called photosynth that really connects two different technologies together .
and there &apos;s this story about the woman of the bischof of worchester .
she heard about this book by charles darwin , the origin of species and the ancestry of man .
that the human being should come from the monkey , and , yes , there would be at least a common ancestor between humans and monkeys .
and then she ran into her husband and said , well , that &apos;s probably not true what charles is writing .
the human being is supposed to come from the monkey or have a common ancestor .
no , no , it &apos;s not .
and if it &apos;s true , then we have to prevent people from getting knowledge of it .
why do we have to prevent people from getting knowledge of something if it &apos;s true ?
because we can &apos;t live without these lies of life .
because we have this self-deception , this feeling of being great , descending from the highest creatures , not from such a natural level , of something unpredictable like an organism that still exists , a rock comparable , and otherwise what things are , that &apos;s unsustainable to us .
one is seadragon , and the other is a very good research on computer vision , which is from noah snavely , a university student at washington , under the counseling of steve seitz at uw .
so , we can &apos;t do these things .
we have to prevent people from getting knowledge of things , especially when they &apos;re true .
so you can see how slowly this mechanism dissolves , and what the traces look like that he leaves , which lead to something other than this great picture of ourselves , i want to give you another story .
a particularly beautiful story , i mean .
my wife told me .
she came from school one day , she &apos;s a teacher , and she talked about a student .
an autistic student .
she likes him especially because he has a propensity for sincerity .
and she asked him , what are your hobbies ?
and he says , well , i &apos;m at the fire department .
and rick szeliski was done by microsoft research . it &apos;s a very good collaboration .
and because i &apos;m in the fire department , i &apos;m interested in pyroengineering things .
yes , you feel it when you &apos;re hotter at this point . something &apos;s not true .
i told my wife , whenever a human being in a moral justification uses the word because , we should try to replace it with the word , even though it is .
do that once , and then you experience the sentence .
even though i &apos;m at the fire department , i &apos;m interested in pyroengineering things .
you feel that that &apos;s the real truth behind the outcome .
this is a little bub that doesn &apos;t care about firedissolving .
they &apos;re interested in fireflies .
but there are no clubs where we can look around , where we learn how to make fire .
there &apos;s only the second best , the fire department .
now , a language is not just the sum of the vocabulary or a series of grammar locks .
so this is live on the internet . it &apos;s driven by seadragon .
and he signed up .
and if you think about it , you don &apos;t tell your teacher that you like to put fires somewhere , and you &apos;re happy when the fire blows up afterwards .
no , it just looks much better if we show that we &apos;re in charge of eliminating the dangers that other people can only make when they &apos;re firing .
here you have this little mechanism .
this evidence of the fact that in the inside of the bub , he knew that he was actually related to the fire , but he can &apos;t say that loud .
here you have this censorship between the unconscious and the conscious that jumps right away , without the fact that you can do something about it , and the things that you know look very different , so that you can sound much better for you and others .
and so you just get these words that we use over and over again in the language of the politically correct speech .
in fact , we know that something else is the case .
but we know , when we say that , the social relations are very sensitive .
we can &apos;t just do that .
you can see that when we create these kinds of views where we can go through images and have this experience of multiple resolution .
it &apos;s impossible to present things like this in a society that is supposed to work .
now , i want to show you what we &apos;ve found in my institute .
what logic this deception , this self-deception , the willingness , a different reality than the one that we actually know in the unconscious world that it &apos;s valid to spread outside .
i want to give you two , maybe three examples of this .
the first example predicts what many of you know and some of you appreciate , very few of you don &apos;t need at all .
i mean the soul .
what is the soul ?
the soul is something like this , says something like leibniz .
it &apos;s something that &apos;s not stop-fabric , material nature .
and if you have people in front of you who are the most persuasive , that they have a soul , or you can also say , who believe that they &apos;ve been brought from the soul to life , then they think of it as something like the soul is such a mental framework about them , not from matter , they &apos;re just from meat and blood , something stone , to the earth &apos;s bound , delicate , incomprehensible , unimportant , yes dead .
but the spatial order of the images is actually important here .
and now , from this soul , you think that you &apos;re kind of in this cloudy nature , in this funny nature , anima , it &apos;s called in latin , in the air hall , to be present .
and if that air station is poisoning over people , it &apos;s filled with dignity , with spirit , with nature that can only live , with soul .
and then he can walk away .
that &apos;s the idea of how the soul works .
so it &apos;s going to come from the outside to the human .
so we should perceive them as something that is supposed to be present for our lives .
and if you have that premise , you understand the logic by which we experience this happiness to improve our world through a lie .
because now you can use a three-sentence .
three sentences , you still know from school .
this is now a three-sentence that describes a logic to us .
the computer visions algorithms have captured these images together so that they can take the real room where these images that were all made near the grassi lakes in the canadian rockies , and you can see there are elements of stabilized slides or panoramic imaging , and these things were all linked together in space .
this is the hardest part of my talk , by the way .
here you need some logic , but also the willingness to lie .
that is , lying in a way that you can just get this logic wrong .
in this three-sentence , there are three sentences .
the first sentence is , claim , there &apos;s no soul .
so the second sentence is , if klaus is right , he doesn &apos;t have a soul .
now there &apos;s a third sentence .
i &apos;ve highlighted him in particular .
a third sentence that appears instantly in people who have a strong feeling for a soul .
they say , who has no soul , he &apos;s dead , and he can &apos;t say anything .
i don &apos;t know if i have time to show you other environments .
and here you feel it already .
here comes this logic in this , yes , in this deceptive talk .
you see it immediately .
the first two sentences , they &apos;re logically correct .
because i can say everything .
the logic doesn &apos;t make any statements about reality .
i can say the cancers is a man .
and if i &apos;m right , the chancer is a man .
if i &apos;m not right , the chancer is not a man .
the logic doesn &apos;t make a statement about what &apos;s true .
there are those that are much more spatial .
i can say anything .
but the key thing is , if i &apos;m right , it &apos;s true .
so if klaus says , there &apos;s no soul .
secondly , if he &apos;s right , he doesn &apos;t have a soul .
these things are logically correct .
and now our deceiving consciousness immediately feels like you can make something out of it .
it depends on a third sentence that has nothing to do with the first two sentences , and it pretends that the opposite of the first sentence is already proven and predicted .
because , in fact , we have to prove whether there &apos;s the soul or not .
but with this logic that &apos;s easy to use , that two sentences are logically correct , and a third one that looks like it has something to do with it , so we can save our liespots .
so , we pretend that it &apos;s actually impossible without being able to live a soul .
i &apos;d like to just show you one of the original data sets of noah , and this is from an early prototype of photosynth that we &apos;ve been working on for the first time in the summer to show you what i think is really the punch behind this technology , which is photosynth technology , and this is not necessarily so obvious if you look at the environments that we have on the website .
and we &apos;re very happy about this .
we can do these things in different examples .
for example , in the present day , we have a very modern example , which is filling the newspapers over and over .
so you have to think of another philosophical issue , a permanent burner from philosophy .
this has to do with us going back to the 14th century .
there was a scholar called johannes buridanus , and after that , the buridanian esel named .
the buridanian esel is an esel made of pure nature .
it doesn &apos;t have that soul .
this is such a natural thing .
and if you place the exact same thing in the middle between two big hairs , then it &apos;s starving .
we had to worry about the lawyers and so on .
because he doesn &apos;t know what haystack to go to first .
so it &apos;s right in the middle .
that &apos;s how natural things are imagined .
the same big forces with the opposing signs , they dissolve each other .
there &apos;s nothing going on there .
it &apos;s only when you take another example , so when you immediately make the haystack bigger , it doesn &apos;t need any reason and nothing about it .
he automatically walks to the right thought .
so if you have this idea that you &apos;re kind of driven in nature , determined by the bigger pile that pull you right away , you also quickly feel that there must be something like a free will .
and if we &apos;re already here in frankfurt , i remember the max planck institute for brain research .
there &apos;s a scholar called wolf singer , and it &apos;s sometimes said , wolf singer says , there &apos;s no freedom of will .
this is a reconstruction of the cathedral notre lady , who was just taking pictures of flickr in the computer . just give notre dame in flickr , and they &apos;re going to get pictures of men in t-shirts and on the university site , and so on . each of these orange cone represents a picture that was found to be heard in this model .
now we can form the second sentence again , and we can say , if wolf singer is right , he doesn &apos;t have a willingness .
these sentences are absolutely logical and correct .
and what we can now read in the daily newspaper almost every day , that &apos;s what you find in that third sentence .
it looks something like this , who has no freedom of willingness , can &apos;t be attracted to his actions and claims for responsibility , and therefore it &apos;s unaccountable .
again , you have it again .
in fact , you &apos;d have to prove , you know , is there any kind of willingness ?
but the logic of deception allows us to pretend that the first sentence of preceding is wrong , as if you had to take the opposite without proof , of course .
and now you can just , if you want to do anything yourself , if you want to test anything yourself , and especially if you want to make people happy , practice that courage to lie .
for example , practice this when you meet a human being that you can tell , there are no predictors .
and please don &apos;t use the german word for predictors , which is prophet .
so these are all flickr images , and they &apos;re all in spatial ways related to each other .
you can &apos;t call that , that would be a little bit politically incorrect again .
say there are no predictors .
immediately , they become one that , of course , there are these predictors , you can &apos;t prove that .
and they already have a problem .
because while you &apos;re busy making it clear that you can &apos;t prove that there are no predictors , the man is very happy .
he &apos;s very happy about it because he deceived it .
because he &apos;s led them to a herring that he doesn &apos;t stop himself on .
because , in fact , this person is not interested in evidence .
he &apos;s only interested in keeping himself free from the need to prove that there are predictors .
so , in the kind of shifting of the evidence load , you &apos;re experiencing the magnitude of the lie .
a language is expression of the human mind .
and we can navigate in this very simple way .
and once again , if you have that kind of opportunity to feel that three-sentence in other people , you do , because you will make other people happy if you don &apos;t remember them that way in your self-lie .
thank you for your attention .
yes , good afternoon .
i allowed myself to have lilly asked me if i could mention them .
she &apos;s one of the organizers here from this great event , and she asked me if i wanted to give a talk here and give my idea to you .
i have to tell you , you got it , i had a hard time talking about my idea at the beginning .
and i may want to introduce my island project that i &apos;m trying to imagine you .
but it &apos;s , of course , the sum of a lot of ideas .
i &apos;m probably part of it , the two nice girls are still there , and i &apos;m probably part of the generation that &apos;s made for this bad auko image , because i &apos;ve already started studying machine construction in the ninety-hundred , 70s , in karlsquiet , technical college , now it &apos;s called , i think , kit .
and then i was struck by berlin in the mid-80s , because i wanted to do renewables , and that didn &apos;t exist in cardboard .
you know , i never believed that i was going to end up working at microsoft .
there was the core research facility of leopoldshafen .
it was called all the kfa at the time , which was called the jewish kfa .
they &apos;re called project carriers today .
because a good engineer either has built great cars or nuclear power plants .
but sort of doofes like &apos; n solar pendulum , which comes out of a hundred watts from the square meter , which was a toy .
and in berlin , there was a crazy engineering collectively .
i &apos;m grateful to the premium cola man that he rehabilitated the word again , because after the masonry , you couldn &apos;t use the word at all , because everything on the left was bad .
however , in the aticians , it wasn &apos;t like that .
it was just that there was self-managed alternatives , and one of them was sitting in cross the courtyard , where you suspected evil .
it was a place of terrorism , but that was called the fuzzy , and it made wind and solar , and that &apos;s where i started in the mid-80s .
i &apos;m very grateful for the reception here .
and yes , a lot of what &apos;s been said today , i &apos;m very touched by , because many , many beautiful expressions were the ones that i &apos;ve also lived through .
i worked in the collectively for 11 years , which was grassroots .
we were 20 people .
if one didn &apos;t say no , the vetoprinzip , it completely crashed you . i &apos;ve been doubting for 10 years about whether i was wasting my great engineering study , perhaps really , to a devastating thing , because all my father &apos;s colleagues have always been talking to him , you &apos;ve taken the money out to the window in your child .
it &apos;s about inflammation .
and this was really , really bitter , and then you get into this kind of phase , and you just got a picture where i was asking myself , after 10 years , a thousand d marrow were , at the time , basic wage in the collective , of course , whether it really should be such a great thing .
and i then went to sixty-six , and then together with friends , i became a co-founder of the company solon , which then became one of the largest cell manufacturers in the world with the spin-off q-cells .
and of course , a huge history , but again , we &apos;ve got the problem of a growing company , and we &apos;ve got two thousand , a small group , decided that we &apos;re going to start small again and go back and dedicate ourselves to the next topic of the future , and that is , i think , and our behavior , it &apos;s kind of crazy again , and that starts with the fact that people say , what &apos;s the gossip , that &apos;s not all going to happen , we &apos;re talking about storage .
and that &apos;s where i brought a project that i want to introduce you to .
and the title of the talk was , yes , how you get a hundred percent renewable .
i suspect you can see that these are a lot of different types of cameras : everything is in the process , from the cell phone camera to professional slrs , a fairly large number of them that have all been put together in this environment .
and we &apos;ve just begun to ask a relatively simple , crazy story , where could you use a memory sense of the day ?
on this island , this is the island of graciosa on the azores .
yes , that &apos;s the data .
there are four and a half thousand people living .
they have a 15 percent renewable amount of energy today .
and the question is , why don &apos;t they have more ?
it just doesn &apos;t work technologically .
when they grow more wind , the system starts to fail .
that &apos;s what i always tell the politicians when they &apos;re in berlin adlershard in our facility .
they always say , why ?
and if possible , i &apos;ll find some of the strange ones .
we already have 20 percent in germany .
can &apos;t be a problem .
it &apos;s not true , we have seven percent in europe , and our web is physically the european .
if we had 20 percent in europe , we would have the same problems that people have on this island .
the question was simple , calculated that was two-thousandth 2006 , and the first contacts started with the island , but they just did the math .
how big a battery would have to be , in fact , to get an island like this to 20 , 30 , 40 , 50 , maybe 70 percent renewable .
and yes , i &apos;m going to go back to a slide .
the conventional system looks like this all over the world .
by the way , about a hundred gigawatts of electrical power are being built on the same basis in the world .
that &apos;s the equivalent of a hundred nuclear power plants , because it &apos;s going very fast everywhere .
many of them are covered by faces and so on .
the energy hunger of the world that &apos;s happening is wiped out with this , because you don &apos;t need permission .
that &apos;s going fast .
you put it in this box .
and then it usually looks like this .
in the course of this , three of the peaks are always running , two of them are always waiting .
yes , it &apos;s a little bit of a burden down there .
we also got very accurate data .
and the wind power plant , or the solar system , or whatever it is , is usually a back-up system , or a system that can only store in small quantities here .
our goal was to just say , okay .
the diesel is going to be back-up , and the wind , the sun is going to serve the burden so that they can map the larger percentage .
somewhere here are a series of photographs -- here they are .
and if you want to go over 20 , 30 percent renewable energy , which is energy per year , not the power at the moment , you have to turn off this .
that is , at the moment , you have to make sure that renewables can take over the whole grid , if you will .
of course , you can only do that if you &apos;re manned in some way .
no one has done that in the world .
this is in a small way , so you can also serve your razors in the car over a little change judge .
people always ask me , what are you doing in adlershard ?
that &apos;s going on .
but if you want to put together several of these conversations , and they &apos;re supposed to build a net , it &apos;s extremely complicated .
and our goal was , we wanted to get to seventh to ninety-nine percent renewables , and then there &apos;s the rest , the last 10 , 20 percent renewables , and that &apos;s going to be very , very expensive , and that &apos;s not going to work , you &apos;re going to do that from batteries .
that &apos;s going to be an energy carrier , which then , hydrogen , methane , power to gas , you know , or sh , it &apos;s going to be .
this is actually a poster of notre dame , which was recorded properly .
you have to go to a seasonal memory , and winter summer , and not only do tag night .
we just wanted to know , what about a normal , stinky electrochemical battery ?
how far do you get ?
and then they did a whole bunch of simulations .
and then wind and the sun and the burden were simulated and came to the conclusion , a very exciting conclusion that you would be facing the conventional system , which , after 20 years , takes about 50 cents a kilowatt-hour , about 40 cents a kilowatt-hour .
these were the very first calculations six years ago .
and then we said , okay .
well , if you &apos;re great , you have a business model .
we &apos;re cheaper than the same system when the same price goes up five percent a year .
and then we started negotiating with the insulaners .
we can move from the poster to a physical view of this environment .
what would it have to be done ?
i &apos;ve negotiated with investors , i &apos;ve searched for new social sheep .
we were only five people at the time to rebuild a society .
and here &apos;s the representation again .
the brown is kind of the conventional system , the green is our system .
that our system also has a price increase , because we &apos;re going to do 20 percent with this , and we &apos;re not going to go through a price increase in the other things .
and the power-utility , which means the electric supply company on the island , we love it .
we also want to support , but we don &apos;t believe that you can solve the technical problem .
and that &apos;s why we decided to build a hall in berlin , where we can sort of map the electrical proportions of the island at the scale one to three in a very accurate way .
that is , we &apos;ve been looking for the first time to find the largest battery in the world .
the point here is that we can do things with the social environment , and it &apos;s now collected data from everybody -- from the whole collective memory of what , visually , the earth looks like -- and everything is connected .
here it is .
it comes naturally from asia , in the case of japan .
and funny , in the &apos; 70s , it was developed at bbc mannheim , now abb , and then was licensed to the japanese .
it &apos;s a very , very large battery , you can see .
it &apos;s got a megawatt power , and it can do this performance for six hours , and that &apos;s the battery that we kind of got out of simulation technology .
and then they set them up .
we also have one of these same aggregate in the same size that it &apos;s standing there , to actually get the full dynamic behavior of this web , so in the hall , it looks like this now , there &apos;s the back , here &apos;s the big battery , there &apos;s all the controversy that we &apos;re simulating the web with .
over here , we simulate the whole transmission system , the miles physics of cables , to sort of map the vibrational behavior on the net .
and here you can see the whole thing again .
we can also turn two hundred kilowatts of photovoltaics on the web .
and of course , we all share the same adaptation needs .
it &apos;s a means by which the soul of a particular culture finds access to the material world .
all of these photos are connected together , and there &apos;s something bigger than the sum of the parts .
this is what we see again , we see the diesel again , again , the whole , single aggregate .
and what we &apos;ve done since the last two thousandth was finished , until now , two-thousandth of roughly everything that was going on between the single system of electronics , of software , we &apos;ve done it .
so we &apos;re not a battery manufacturer , but we define ourselves as a company that &apos;s just between the theme of battery and the theme of the grid and everything in between .
you have to communicate to the battery , of course , you have to be able to communicate to the web , and that &apos;s very complicated .
the beauty of this is that , in fact , on this island today , you can take away everything that we &apos;re going to get if we want to increase our share of renewables .
so this whole discussion , how is going to be moving back and forth right now , turning energy , how is it going to be going , on the island , for example , for five to 30 percent excess energy , so we &apos;re going to have to defend the wind and the sun .
natural light then offers smart-grid .
so smart-grid , a huge topic everywhere .
we can start to integrate electromobility on the island , to challenge rubber , because you can manage the burden .
that is , if you &apos;re at 70-percent renewable , you &apos;re not going to be able to do that without storage .
they get a model that comes out of the whole earth .
you can do it through &apos; n smart-grid , you can do it by expanding the nets , yes , you should definitely do it , you will hear the percentage , but you will never be able to completely dispense with memory .
and that &apos;s the message .
that &apos;s why a lot of people get there , and they look at this , because you can see what problems you get .
if we turn off the diesel , you don &apos;t have this rotating mass that causes some inertia on the net .
and our european network is basically just made up of loud rotating masses of large power plants , where the wave is always the same all around europe .
we look inside this web , and we see the 50 hertz , and when it gets nine and a half , and when it gets nine hertz , we &apos;re going to catch some valves , and then we &apos;re going to go back a little bit more merh steam , and then we &apos;re going to get back up .
that &apos;s the system .
and of course , it &apos;s incredibly poignant .
if you tear it down somewhere , it &apos;s going to take a while .
the spinning reserve has at least 10 seconds to keep the net stable .
consider this the continuation of stephen lawlers to virtual earth .
and in time , you can react to other things again .
if you don &apos;t have that anymore , that rotating mass , you have to replace that with the power electronics and electrochemistry .
and we can turn two milliseconds out with this big battery .
you can see , there &apos;s an enormous amount of speed there .
and the message is , we need to get these rotating masses , if we kind of 20 , 20 , 20 percent , 20 percent , 20 , 30 , 30 percent , and so on , if we want to get to it at all .
then we have to degrade our must-run capacity on the net .
must-run is simply , the power plant is running in order to keep the frequency .
yes , that &apos;s a huge debate right now , growing the coal plants , because we don &apos;t do anything else , or gasturbines , because that &apos;s not what &apos;s going on .
and we &apos;re just trying to make it clear that you can degrade the capacity , the must-run capacity , by putting electrochemical storage on the web .
and fortunately , there are a lot of studies now .
and this is something that grows through the complexity that people use with , and the benefit of it , for the user , gets bigger and bigger with the use .
and for that purpose , people always come and look at our experimentation , sort of , at our island level .
and yes , the discussion is always about the question of how far can you take a piece of the future there ?
and many discussions that i &apos;ve had in the last six years have been similar to the discussion that i &apos;ve had in the last 30 years on photovoltaics .
you can &apos;t do it , it &apos;s weakness , it &apos;s child &apos;s toy , we &apos;ve done everything , we &apos;ve never calculated .
we have 30 gigawatts of photovoltaics in germany today .
this is preconceived .
and i just assume that in the next 30 years , we will have the same capacity of electrochemical storage around the world .
simple , that &apos;s how it &apos;s going to come .
there will be a whole lot of resistance and arguments .
the beautiful thing is that i &apos;ve seen , in the last two years , that the scientists are putting themselves on my side .
their own photos are covered with metadata that another person has embedded in it .
we &apos;ve now gotten over 10 million funding projects , and we &apos;ve also got 10 megawatt-batteries now on the german net .
this will happen in the next april .
so you can also see that there &apos;s a change there , and it &apos;s only from that defense to yes , to the idea that a hundred percent renewable is true .
and if you have a hundred percent renewable , it &apos;s like a self-sustaining system .
so far , in discussions , they &apos;re always trying to do this insulaner , they &apos;re doing autark , they have a small net , which has to do with our connection , and nothing to do with them .
the question is , if you &apos;re totally independent of any fossil or uranium energy , that &apos;s going to be drilled out anywhere in the world and put to you , you &apos;re an island .
then they only use what &apos;s there on the sun and the wind where they live .
and this is a little bit of our vision of a reasonable energy supply , and i &apos;m also grateful to cradle that they said , use solar energy .
and that &apos;s what we do , and in that way , comes to the premium cola talk , that you can be a collective again and use solar energy , here &apos;s a little bit together .
and yeah , i just want to encourage you , in the sense that you can be a little crazy and have a vision .
if someone has been struggling and labeled all of these sacred people and told them who they are , then my photograph of the notre dame-cathedral is suddenly accumulated with all of this data , and i can use it as a starting point to dive into this room , into these metaverse , which use photos of other people , and therefore provide a kind of cross-model of social experience using other people .
and you really have to stay pretty tough , but i think it &apos;s going to happen .
thank you .
when steve lopez , columnist of los angeles times , went through the streets at the center of los angeles , he heard a wonderful music .
she came from a man , an african-american , sympathetic , rau , homeless , who played on a violin , who had only two strings .
many of you will know the story , because from steve &apos;s article about it , later , a book that was filmed again with robert downey junior when steve lopez and jamie foxx was a nathaniel anthony ayers , the contractor who studied at the juilliard conservatory , and whose promising career , tragically , early on , was finished by his paranoid schizophrenia .
nathaniel left juilliard , suffered a breakdown , and 30 years later , he lived as homeless on the streets of skid row at the center of los angeles .
i recommend to all of you to read steves &apos; book , or to look at the film , so that not only do you understand the wonderful connectedness that was created between these two men , but also how music helped make that connection , and how it ended up being the instrument when that word game is allowed to get the mithalf , nathaniel , off the street .
i met mr ayers in 2008 , two years ago , at walt disney concert hall .
he had just heard a demonstration of beethoven &apos;s first and fourth symphony and came behind the stage to imagine me .
he talked about yo-yo ma and hillary clinton in a very hot and gregarious note about how the dodgers would never get into the baseball world series , and that &apos;s all because of the danish passage of the first violin in the last sentence of beethoven &apos;s fourth symphony .
and of course , byproduct of all of this is the immense virtual models of every interesting part of the earth , not only from overhead or satellite images and so on , but from collective memory .
we got to talk about music , and a few days later , i got an email that said that nathaniel was interested in my gself-teaching .
i have to mention that nathaniel rejected a medical treatment , because he was already treated with electroshocks and thorazine and handcuffs , a trauma that followed him all his life .
as a result , he &apos;s particularly vulnerable to these schizophrenic stages , and they &apos;re sometimes so bad , and he &apos;s gone for days , and he &apos;s walking around the streets of skid row , always exposed to this horror and the torture of his own mind .
and in the same kind of a lovely stage , nathaniel , when we first started in the walt disney concert hall with our first lesson , and he had this error of flickers in his eyes , and he was completely lost .
he talked about invisible demons and smoke and how someone wanted to poison him in the sleep .
i was afraid , not by any means , but i was afraid that i could lose it , that it could fall into one of its states , and that i could destroy his relationship to the violin when i started talking about scale and arpeggios and other exciting forms of didactic guitar .
so i just started playing .
i played the first sentence by beethoven &apos;s violin concert .
and as i was playing , i noticed that in nathaniel &apos;s eyes , a complete change was happening .
it was like he was standing under the influence of an invisible pharmaceutical response , a chemical reaction , which was my game catalyst .
thank you .
nathaniels manic anger turned into understanding , into a quiet curiosity and grace .
and as a miracle , he took his violin , and he started playing some sections of violin concerts after hearing , and then he asked me to end up playing them : mendelsson , tschaikovski , sibelius .
we then started talking about music , from bach to beethoven , brahms , bruckner and all the other bs , from bartok to esa pecca .
and i realized that he had not only an encyclopedic knowledge of music , but he also connected it to her a close personal relationship .
he talked about her with a passion and a understanding that i would only know of my colleagues in the philharmony of los angeles .
by playing music and talking about music , this paranoid , confused man who had just moved through the streets of los angeles , a loving , educated , excellent , trained musician in juilliard .
music is medicine . music changes us .
for nathaniel , music means mental health .
because the music allows him to transform his thoughts and delusions with his imagination and creativity into something real .
and so he escapes his agonizing conditions .
do i understand you right ? your software enables you to have a certain time , in the next few years , all the images that are used by someone in the world , in principle , to be connected ?
i understood that this is the nature of art .
this is why we make music : so that we can make something that is inside of all of us , deep inside us , our emotions , through our artistic lens , through our creativity to reality .
and the reality of that expression reaches us all , and moves , inspired and united us .
when nathaniel went on , the music brought him back to a community of friends .
the redeeming power of music brought him back to a family of musicians who understood him , who recognized his talent and paid him attention .
and i will always play with nathaniel , whether in the walt disney concert hall or skid row , because he reminds me of why i became a musician .
thank you .
bruno giussani : thank you . thank you .
robert gupta .
robert gupta : i want to play something that i &apos;ve been reluctantly stealing the cellists .
yes . it does nothing but discover .
i hope you &apos;ll forgive me .
so i knew a lot of fish in my life .
i just loved two .
this first one , this was more like a passionate monkey .
it was a beautiful fish , tasty , good consistency , rich , a bestseller on the menu .
what a fish .
even better , he was raised in aquulture after the highest standards of sustainability .
so you could feel comfortable selling it .
i had a relationship with this beauty over several months .
one day , the head of the company called and asked if i could do an event about the sustainability of the farm .
every language is like an old-fashioned forest of the mind , a turning point , an idea , an ecosystem of spiritual possibilities .
if you want , it creates hyperlinks between the images .
&quot; of course , &quot; i said .
here was a company that was trying to solve what this incredible problem was for our chefs . how do we keep fish on our menu ?
in the last 50 years , we &apos;ve fished the ocean as we &apos;ve beaten the forests of bare .
it &apos;s hard to overestimate the destruction .
90 percent of the big fish that we love , the tuna , the healing butt , the salmon fish , the swordfish , they &apos;ve collapsed .
there &apos;s almost nothing left .
so , i think or evil aquulture , fisheries , will be part of our future .
a lot of arguments about it . fishing facilities are polluting the environment , most of them , and they &apos;re inefficient , we take tuna . it &apos;s a big disadvantage .
he &apos;s got a 15 to one food processing .
that means 15 pounds of wild fish are necessary to get a pound of sugar tuna .
and it does this because of the content in the images .
not very sustainable .
it doesn &apos;t taste very well .
so here was finally a company trying to get it right .
i wanted to support them .
the day before the event , i called the head of public work for the company .
let &apos;s call it don .
&quot; don , &quot; i said , &quot; just to have the facts right , you &apos;re famous for growing so far out in the ocean that you &apos;re not polluting the environment . &quot;
&quot; that &apos;s true , &quot; he said . &quot; we &apos;re so far out that the waste is distributed from our fish , not concentrated . &quot;
and then he added , &quot; we &apos;re basically a world of our own .
this food processing from 2.5 to one , &quot; he said .
and that &apos;s really exciting when you think about the abundance of semantic information that many of these images have .
&quot; the best in the industry . &quot;
2.5 to one , great .
&quot; 2.5 to one what ? what do you feed ? &quot;
&quot; sustainable proteins , &quot; he said .
&quot; great , &quot; i said . set up .
and that evening , i was lying in bed thinking , what the hell is a sustainable protein ?
so i called the next day , just before the event , don .
i said , &quot; don , for example , what are sustainable proteins ? &quot;
he said he didn &apos;t know . he &apos;s going to ask .
well , i was telephone with a few people in the company , and no one could give me a fair answer , until finally , i was telephone with the conductive biologist .
like if you do a web search for images , where you type in sentences , and the text of the website contains a lot of information about what the image is .
let &apos;s also call it don .
&quot; don , &quot; i said , &quot; for example , what are sustainable proteins ? &quot;
well , he mentioned some algae and some fish meals , and then he said , chicken pellets .
i said , &quot; chicken pellets ? &quot;
he said , &quot; yes , feather , skin , bone flour , remnant , dried and processed for food . &quot;
i said , &quot; how much percent of your food is chicken ? &quot;
in the assumption of maybe two percent .
&quot; well , that &apos;s about 30 percent , &quot; he said .
i said , &quot; don , what is sustainable to feed chicken to fish ? &quot;
there was a long break in the line , and he said , &quot; there &apos;s just too much chicken in the world . &quot;
but what if the picture connects you to all your images ?
i fell in love with this fish .
no , not because i &apos;m a self-righteous and well-being .
that &apos;s me .
no , i actually fell in love with this fish , because i swear to god who &apos;s smashed fish after this conversation for chicken .
this second fish , this is a different kind of love story .
it &apos;s the romantic way , the more you get to know your fish , you love the more fish .
i first ate it in a restaurant in southern spain .
a friend of mine had been talking about this fish for a long time .
it kind of sucked us up .
he came to the table with a bright , almost glowing white color .
then the scale of the semantic cross connection , and the abundance that comes out of it , is really enormous . it &apos;s a classic network effect .
the chef had cooked it .
hold on twice .
amazingly , he was still delicious .
who can make a fish taste so well after it was cooked ?
i can &apos;t , but this guy can .
let &apos;s call it miguel . in fact , he &apos;s called miguel .
and no , he didn &apos;t cook the fish , and he &apos;s not a chef , at least in the way that you and i understand it .
he &apos;s a biologist at veta la palma .
this is a fish elevator in the southwestern corner of spain .
it &apos;s near the mouth of the river , guadalquivir .
blaise , that &apos;s really incredible . heart congratulations .
until the 1980s , the farm was in the hands of argentina .
they were growing meat cattle on what were basically wetlands .
they did it by dewatering the land .
they built this complicated series of channels , and they put water out of the country and out into the river .
well , they couldn &apos;t make it work , not economically .
and ecologically , it was a disaster .
it killed about 90 percent of the birds , which is a lot of birds for this place .
and so in 1982 , a spanish company with environmental consciousness bought the country .
what did they do ?
they &apos;ve reversed the flow of the water .
thank you very much .
they &apos;ve literally replaced the lever .
instead of pushing the water out , they used the channels to pull the water back in .
they flooded the channels .
they created a 11,000 hectares of fish -- bark , seaweed , shrimp , aal -- and in the process , miguel and his company completely reversed the ecological destruction .
the farm is incredible .
i mean , you &apos;ve never seen anything like that .
they &apos;re staring out at the horizon , which is a million miles away , and all you see are curved channels and this density , lush march .
i wasn &apos;t there very long ago with miguel .
he &apos;s an incredible guy , three parts of charles darwin and part of &quot; a crocodile to kiss . &quot;
okay ? there we were , and we fought through the wetlands , and i cheat , and i sweat , and we have mud up to my knees , and miguel has a biologic lecture in the quiet .
i &apos;m going to tell you a couple of things from my book that , i hope , are in harmony with other things that you &apos;ve already heard , and i &apos;m going to try to make some connections myself if you haven &apos;t noticed them .
here he &apos;s highlighting a rare glider .
now he mentioned the mineral needs of phytoplankton .
and here , he sees a pattern of bundles that reminds him of the tanzanian giraffe .
it turns out that miguel has spent most of his career in mikumi national park in africa .
i asked him how he became such a fish expert .
he said , &quot; fish ? i don &apos;t know about fish .
i &apos;m an expert in relationships . &quot;
and then he goes and falls into more of the talking of rare birds and algae and strange water plants .
and don &apos;t get me wrong , that was really fascinating , you know , the biotic community of unplugged , like that .
it &apos;s great , but i was in love .
i want to start with what i call &quot; official dogma . &quot;
and my head became weak about this cooked piece of delicious fish that i had the night before .
so i interrupted it . i said , &quot; miguel , how come your fish taste so well ? &quot;
he pointed to the algae .
&quot; i know boy , the algae , the phytoplankton , the relationships , that &apos;s incredible .
but what do your fish eat ?
what is the food processing ? &quot;
well , he continues to tell me that it &apos;s such a rich system that the fish eat what they would eat in the wild .
the plant biomass , the phytoplankton , the zooplankton , that &apos;s what the fish feed .
the system is so healthy , it &apos;s completely self-assembling .
there &apos;s no food .
and of those 6,000 languages today , while we &apos;re sitting here in monterey , half of them are not whispered into the ears of children .
the official dogma of what ?
any of you ever hear of a farm that your animals don &apos;t feed ?
later the day , i was driving around on this site with miguel , and i asked him , i said , &quot; for a place that seems so natural , &quot; unlike any farm i &apos;ve ever been to , &quot; how do you measure success ? &quot;
at the moment , it was as if a film director had demanded a stage change .
and we bow around the corner , and we had the most incredible look , thousands and thousands of pink flamingos , a literally pink carpet so far as the eye goes .
&quot; that &apos;s successful , &quot; he said .
&quot; look at their trees , pink .
they &apos;re bad . &quot;
bad ? i was completely confused .
i said , &quot; miguel , don &apos;t you delete your fish ? &quot;
&quot; yes , &quot; he said .
the official faiths of all western industrialized societies .
&quot; we lose 20 percent of our fish and fish eggs to the birds .
well , last year , on this site , 600,000 birds , were more than 250 different species .
it &apos;s become the largest and one of the most important private birdreserves in all of europe today .
i said , &quot; miguel , is a well-thriving bird population not the last thing you want to have on a fish elevator ? &quot;
he shake his head , no .
he said , &quot; we &apos;re building extensively , not intensely .
this is an ecological network .
the flamingos eat the shrimp .
the shrimp eats the phytoplankton .
so the more pink the gut , the better the system . &quot;
the official dogma works like this : if our goal is to maximize the well-being of our citizens , it &apos;s mostly through maximizing the freedom of the individual .
okay , let &apos;s rethink that . a farm that doesn &apos;t feed its animals and a farm that measures their success on the health of their predators .
a fish elevator , but also a bird reserve .
oh , and by the way , these flamingos should not even be there .
they breed in a city 240 miles away , where the ground level is better for nest maintenance .
every morning , they fly 240 miles to the farm .
and every night , they fly back 240 miles .
they do that because they can follow the strict white line on the highway a92 .
seriously .
i had imagined a kind of journey of penguins , so i looked at miguel .
i said , &quot; miguel , do you fly 240 miles to the farm and then fly back 240 miles at night ?
the reason for this is that freedom in itself is good , valuable , meaningful , an inaccessible premise for the human .
do you do that for the kids ? &quot;
he looked at me as if i had just quoted a song by whitney houston .
he said , &quot; no . you do it because the food is better . &quot;
i didn &apos;t mention the skin of my beloved fish , which was delicious , and i don &apos;t like fish skin . i don &apos;t like it clean . i don &apos;t like it crunchy .
it &apos;s this pissed-off , cook taste .
i almost never cook with it .
and yet , when i tried her in this restaurant in southern spain , she didn &apos;t look for fish skin at all .
it tasted sweet and pure as if you were to take a bite from the ocean .
i mentioned this to miguel , and he was nodding .
he said , &quot; the skin works like a sponge .
when people have freedom , each of us is about doing the things that maximize our public good and no one has to decide for us .
it &apos;s the last defense before something comes into the body .
it &apos;s evolved over the course of evolution to look at unpurity . &quot;
and then he added , &quot; but our water doesn &apos;t have any unpurity . &quot;
okay . a farm that doesn &apos;t feed its fish , a farm that measures its success at the success of its predators .
and then i realized , when he says a farm that doesn &apos;t have any unpurity , he &apos;s powering enormous , because the water that flows through this farm comes in from the river of guadalquivir .
it &apos;s a river that leads all the things that rivers now tend to lead them , chemical pollutants , abundance of pest control .
and when it &apos;s fought through the system , and it &apos;s leaving the water clean than it &apos;s coming in .
the system is so healthy , it cleans the water .
so not just a farm that feeds their animals , not only a farm that measures their success on the health of their predators , but a farm that is literally a water processing plant , not only for these fish , but for you and me .
because when the water flows out , it goes down in the atlantic .
the way to maximize freedom is to maximize choice .
a drop in the ocean , i know , but i &apos;m going to take it , and you should do that , because this love story , however romantic , is also revelative .
you might say that it &apos;s a recipe for the future for good food , whether we &apos;re talking about bark or meat cattle .
what we need now is a radical new concept of agriculture , of one where food actually tastes good .
but for many people , it &apos;s a little bit too radical .
we &apos;re not realists , we &apos;re more enjoyable . we &apos;re lovers .
we love weekmarkets . we love small family businesses . we talk about local food . we eat bio .
and if you say that these are the things that insure the future of good food , somebody gets up somewhere and says , &quot; hey guys , i love pinke flamingos , but how will you feed the world ?
how will they feed the world ? &quot;
can i be honest ?
i don &apos;t like that question .
the more choices people have , the more freedom they have , and the more freedom they have , the more public good they have .
no , not because we &apos;re already producing enough calories to feed the world more than just .
a billion people are going to starve today .
a billion -- that &apos;s more than ever before -- because of the raw inequalities in the distribution , not the total production .
well , i don &apos;t like this question because it &apos;s the logic of our food system for the last 50 years .
feeding crops of herbivores , pest fights to monocultures , chemicals to the earth , chickens to fish , and all the time the agribusiness just asked , &quot; if we feed more people cheaper , how terrible can that be ? &quot;
that was the cause . it was the justification . it was the business plan of american agriculture .
we should call them what it is , a commercial in wrapping , a commercial that quickly ecological capital that allows this production to occur .
this is not a commercial , and it &apos;s not agriculture .
our grain chamber is threatened today , not because of the declining ingredients , but because of the decreasing resources .
not through the latest mice resort and tractor inventions , but through fertile land , not through pumps , but through fresh water , not through chainsaws , but through forests , and not through fishing boats and nets , but through fish in the ocean .
this is , i think , so deep in our water supply , that it would not make any sense to question it .
they want to feed the world ?
let &apos;s start with the question : how are we going to feed ourselves ?
or better , how can we create conditions that enable every community to feed themselves ?
to do that , don &apos;t look at the agricultural model for the future .
it &apos;s really old , and it &apos;s done .
capital , chemistry and machines are on top of it , and it has never produced really good for food .
instead , let &apos;s look at the ecological model .
that &apos;s what &apos;s going on for two billion years of labor experience .
look at miguel , farmers like miguel .
businesses that are not worlds for themselves , operations that are restorative instead of using up , operations that are extensive , rather than just intense , farmers that are not just generators , but experts in relationships .
and it &apos;s also deeply rooted in our lives .
because they &apos;re the ones that are also experts on taste .
and if i &apos;m really honest , you &apos;re a better chef than i &apos;ll ever be .
you know , that &apos;s right to me , because if that &apos;s the future of good food , it will be delicious .
thank you .
now , if i want to leave you with one thing today , it &apos;s that the total data that we consume is bigger than the sum of their parts , and instead of thinking about information overload , i want you to think about how we can use information so that patterns are emerging , and we see trends that wouldn &apos;t have otherwise become visible .
so what we see here is a typical dying diagram arranged by age .
the program that i &apos;m using here is a little experiment .
it &apos;s called pivot , and what i can do with pivot is i can filter after a certain cause of death , say accidents .
and immediately , i see another pattern that comes out .
and that &apos;s because , in the middle , people are the most active , and they &apos;re the most fragile over here .
i &apos;m going to give you some examples of what makes us modern progress .
we can go one step further and rearrange the data and see that circular disease and cancer are the usual suspects , but not for everyone .
now , as we go on and sort out by age , we say 40 years or younger , we see accidents even the main cause that people should be worried about .
and if you look at the research , it &apos;s particularly true in men .
so you can see that looking at information and data in this way is very much reminiscent of swimming in a living information graph .
and if we can do this for raw data , why not for content itself ?
now what we have here is the cover images of every single sport illustrated that have ever been printed .
it &apos;s all here . it &apos;s all online .
you can like to test it after my talk in your rooms .
with pivot , you can dive in a decade .
they can dive in one particular year .
they &apos;re not taught young children anymore , which means that if nothing is done , they &apos;re actually dead .
this is my supermarket . no big one .
you can jump directly to a particular issue .
now , when i look here , i see the athletes that appear in this issue and the sports .
i &apos;m a lance armstrong fan , so i &apos;m going to click on what all the spending is on which lance armstrong is mentioned .
now , if i just want to get a bigger overview , i could think , &quot; ok , what if i look at everything about biking ? &quot;
so i &apos;m going to step back and take the perspective .
now i see greg lemond .
and so you get an idea that if you go through this kind of information , a target , broader , zoom in , zoom out , you don &apos;t just seek out , or you don &apos;t just browse .
you do something that &apos;s actually a little different .
it &apos;s a little bit in between , and we think it changes the way information can be used .
so i want to take this idea a little bit further with something a little bit crazy .
i just want to briefly say something about salatdressing .
what we &apos;ve done here is we &apos;ve taken every single wikipedias and we &apos;ve reduced them to a little summary .
the summary contains a short overview and a symbol of the area that it comes from .
i &apos;m just showing you the top 500 of the most popular wikipediasites .
but even in this limited view , we can do a lot of things .
immediately , we get a sense of the topics that are most popular on wikipedia .
i &apos;m going to choose the theme of government .
well , after i &apos;ve chosen government , i realize that the wikipediacatories that are most likely to cover time magazine &quot; people of the year . &quot;
this is really important , because this is a realization that is not in a single wikipedias .
it &apos;s just to recognize that if you take a step back and look at the whole thing .
looking at one of these summaries , i can then go into the theme of time magazine , &quot; people of the year , &quot; and see them all together .
there are 175 dressings in my supermarket , if you don &apos;t count the 10 different extra olive oil and 12 balzi essions you could buy to make a large number of your own salad of dessings , in the unlikely case that none of the 175 in the store is right for you .
now , when i look at all of these people , i realize that the majority of them are government officials , some of them come from science , some of them , even less , come from the economy . here &apos;s my boss . and one comes from the music .
and interestingly , bono is also a ted prize winner .
so we can jump and look at all the ted prize winners .
you can see , we surf the web for the first time as if it &apos;s really a web , not just from page to side , but much more abstract .
and so i want to show you something else that might be a little surprise .
i &apos;m just going to show you the new york times website .
pivot , this application -- i don &apos;t want to call it a browser ; it &apos;s really not a browser , but you can look at websites -- and we bring this zoom-technology to every single website like this .
so i can take a step back , and jump directly to a specific segment .
so this is important , because just by looking at websites in this way , you can look at the whole internet course in the same way .
so i can zoom in on my trajectory in a certain time frame .
so that &apos;s what the supermarket is like .
here &apos;s the state of the whole demonstration that i &apos;ve been holding to this .
and i can kind of bring back everything i &apos;ve looked at today .
and , when i step back out and look at everything , i can rearrange my trajectory maybe for my search past , and here , i looked for &quot; nepotistic , &quot; here for bing , or here for live labs .
and from here , i can go in and call them up again .
it &apos;s a metaphor that &apos;s used over and over again , and every time it makes the whole picture bigger than the sum of the data .
right now , in this world , we think that data is a curse .
we &apos;re talking about the flood of information overload .
we &apos;re talking about drowning in information .
what if we could turn this situation around and turn the internet on its head , so that instead of going from one to the other , we can start to go from a lot of things to a lot of things , and by doing so , see patterns that would have otherwise remained hidden ?
if we can do that , that data trap , maybe a new source of meaningful information .
and then you go to the consumer electronics business to put together a stereo system -- loudspeakers , cd players , a cassette player , radio , amplifier . and in this one electronics business , there are so many stereo facilities .
and , instead of just moving into information , we can get knowledge from it .
and if we know , we might even be able to get wisdom out of it .
so i &apos;ll stop , thank you very much .
i grew up with a belonging portion of science fiction .
in my school time , i went to school with the bus , one hour per day .
and my nose was always in a book , a science fiction book that took my thoughts out in other worlds , and in a narrative way , my deep inside of me , unsadable curiosity satisfied .
and this curiosity also showed that whenever i wasn &apos;t in school , i would go through the forests and go and collect samples and frogs and snakes and beetles and dough water and bring it all home and under the microscope .
i was so excited about science , you know .
it was all about trying to understand the world and select the limits of the possible .
and my love of science fiction seemed to reflect in my environment , because back in the late &apos; 60s , we flew to the moon and explored the deep sea .
we can assemble 6.5 million different stereo facilities from the components that are offered in this one business .
jacques cousteau came into our living rooms with his fascinating shows that showed us animals and places and a world of wonder that we could never have imagined before .
i think that &apos;s probably been very well adapted to that science fiction role .
and i was an artist .
i could draw . i could paint .
and since there was no video games or this over-saturation with computer-generated movies or all the imagery in the media landscape , i had to create the images in my head .
we all had to do that at the time . when we read a book as children , we took the description of the author and we projected it on the canvas in our heads .
my response to that was to draw and paint by aliens , alien worlds , robots , spaceships and all that kind of thing .
in math class , i was always caught by the teacher , like me , hiding behind the textbook , painting around .
the creativity kind of had to go out .
and something interesting happened , because what fascinated me about jacques cousteaus shows was the idea of a completely unknown world here on earth itself .
you have to admit that this is a big choice .
i certainly would never get to an alien world with a spaceship , and it seemed quite unlikely to me .
but here was a world that i could actually enter , here on earth , and it was just as fascinating and exotic as all of what i &apos;d always imagined when i read these books .
so i decided when i was 15 to be diver .
the only problem with this was that i lived in a small village in canada , 1,000 miles away from the next ocean .
but i didn &apos;t let it discourage .
i annoyed my father until he finally made a dive school in buffalo , new york , just on the other side of the border , where we lived .
i made my submersible in a pool of the ymca in the middle of the winter in buffalo , new york .
but the ocean , a real ocean , i only got to see two years later when we moved to california .
since , in the 40 years that have been denied , i &apos;ve spent about 3,000 hours underwater , 500 hours in submersibles .
and i &apos;ve learned that the world of the deep sea , even in the flat ocean , is as rich as fascinating life as we can &apos;t imagine .
in other areas -- the world of communication .
the imagination of nature doesn &apos;t know boundaries , unlike our own , clear human imagination .
to this day , i feel deep awe for what i see on my dives .
and my love for the ocean stops , with the same intensity as ever .
so when i went out as an adult , it was a filmmaking .
that seemed the best way to tell my inner urge to tell stories , with my need to create images , to unite .
as a kid , i was always drawing comic books and so on .
so movies were the way to bring images and stories together . that &apos;s what fit .
of course , the stories that i chose were from the science fiction area : &quot; terminator , &quot; &quot; aliens , &quot; and &quot; abyss . &quot;
at &quot; abyss , &quot; i was able to connect my preference for the underwater world and the diving diving to the filmmaking .
so my two passions sort of intertwined .
there was a time when i was a boy , you could have every phone provider you wanted , as long as he got from ma bell .
something interesting happened in &quot; abyss &quot; : to solve a narrative problem in this film -- and that was , we had to create a kind of liquid water creature -- we took a computer-generated animation , cg , back .
and what came out was the first computer-generated software surfaces figure to ever see in a movie .
the film didn &apos;t bring money , and that &apos;s exactly what he did when he was making the cost , but i noticed something fascinating : the audience around the world was hypnotized by the magic that went out of it .
according to arthur clarke &apos;s law , you know , advanced technology and magic are no longer different from each other .
so they saw something magical .
and i found this incredibly exciting .
and i thought to myself , &quot; wow , that has to be involved in the movie art . &quot;
so we went to &quot; terminator 2 , &quot; my next film , much further .
together with ilm , we created the guy out of liquid metal , and the success depended on how this effect was going to happen .
and it worked . again , we had created something magical , and the effect in the audience was the same , but we &apos;ve already played a little bit more money with the film .
they rented their phone . they didn &apos;t buy it .
from these two experiences , a whole new world was achieved , a whole new world of creativity for filmmaking .
so i started a company with my good friend , stan winston , who was the best makeup and creature-designer at the time called digital domain .
the basic idea of this company was to skip over the phase of analogous processes with optical printers , etc . , and start with digital productions .
and then we did that , and we gave ourselves a competitive advantage for a while .
but in the mid- &apos; 90s , we realized that in the creatured and the design of the creaturee , what we actually started the company for , we were getting too slow .
i had written this piece called &quot; avatar , &quot; which was to push the measurement of visual effects and computer generated effects in a whole new height , with realistic human , expressive characters made using cg , and the main characters should be all cg , and the world should be cg .
but the measurement pole was kind of pushing back , and the people in my company told me that we weren &apos;t going to be able to do that yet .
so i shifted this , and i made this other film about the big ship that &apos;s going on .
the movie studio , i sold this as &quot; romeo and julia on a ship , &quot; and it became a love film of epic dimensions , a passionate film .
but i actually wanted to dive down to the real wreck of the titanic .
what could be more lonely than being silent , to be one of the last of your people who speak your language , have no way to pass on the wisdom of the ancestors , or to expect the hope of children ?
one consequence of that was that the phone was never broken .
that &apos;s why i made the film .
that &apos;s the truth . the studio didn &apos;t know that .
but i convinced you , by saying , &quot; we &apos;re diving to the wreck . we &apos;re filming the real wreck .
we &apos;re going to show it in the opening sequence of the film .
it &apos;s incredibly important . it &apos;s a good follower for marketing . &quot;
and i convinced them to fund an expedition .
sounds crazy . but that goes back to the fact that your imagination can create a reality .
we then created , in fact , six months later , a reality where i found myself in a russian dive boat , four kilometers below the surface of the north atlantic , looking at the real titanic through a bulleye .
this was not a movie , no hd , this was real .
so , that really blew my mind .
those days are over .
and the preparation for that was enormous . we had to build cameras and headlights and all kinds of things .
and i noticed how much these deep seaweed , a space mission resembled .
well , they were also highly technical and enabled extensive planning .
you get into this capsule , then you float down into this dark , hostile environment , where there &apos;s no hope for rescue , if you don &apos;t do it yourself back .
and i thought , &quot; wow , that &apos;s as if i was in a science fiction movie .
that &apos;s really cool . &quot;
i was really obsessed with exploring the deep sea .
anyway , from the part that has to do with curiosity and science , it was all . it was adventure , it was curiosity . it was imagination .
and it was an experience that hollywood couldn &apos;t give me .
because , you know , i could imagine a creature that we could then create a visual effect , but i couldn &apos;t imagine what i would see outside the window .
we now have almost an infinite choice of phones , especially in the world of mobile phones .
in some of the following expeditions , i saw creatures in thermal sources , and sometimes things that i &apos;d never seen before , sometimes things that nobody had ever seen before , and that science had found no words for when we saw it .
so that got me right , and i wanted more .
and so i made a slightly unusual decision .
after the success of titanic , i said , &quot; okay , i want to put my main profession as a filmmaker in hollywood on ice and i &apos;m going to be a full-time researcher for a while . &quot;
and then we started , we dived to the bismarck , and we explored them with robotic experiences .
we went back to the wreck of the titanic .
we took little robots that we had built that wrapped up a fiberglass cable .
our intention was to dive in and look at the inside of the ship , which had never been done before .
no one had ever explored the inside of the wreck . you had no means for it . so we developed the technology we need .
well , i &apos;m sitting there on the deck of titanic , in a submersible , and i see planks that look a little bit like this , and i know that the band used to play there .
these are the mobile phones of the future .
and i fly with a little robotic experience through the gears of the ship .
i &apos;m actually just serving it , but my consciousness is within the vehicle .
it felt like i was physically in the wreck of the titanic .
this was the most surreal form of a déjna vu that i &apos;ve ever experienced , because before i ever bow around a corner , i always knew what was going to be in the light cone of the vehicle , because i &apos;d walked across the film for months when we were shooting the film .
because the set was an accurate copy of the ship &apos;s blueprints .
so this was a very strange experience .
she made me realize this telepresence experience that you can use such robotic avatars , and put your consciousness into the vehicle , into this other form of existence .
it was really , really profound .
and maybe a little bit of a view of what might happen in a few decades , if you have cyborg bodies to explore or do other things , in all kinds of post-humane futures that i can think of as a science fiction fan .
after these expeditions , we started to really appreciate what we saw down there , for example , these deep sea squid , where we saw these incredibly amazing animals , and these are sort of aliens , but here on earth .
my favorite one is in the middle -- mp3 playful , nasal hairs and crème brée fackel .
they live with chemosynthesis .
they don &apos;t exist in a sunlight system , as we do .
and so you see animals that are right next to 500 degrees celsius , that they can survive there .
at the same time , i was also very interested in space science , which was again the science fiction effect of my childhood .
and so i ended up with the people who are interested in space and who have to do with nasa and sit in nasa at the nasa expertise council and plan real space missions , and they go to russia , and they go through the mission of the biomedical protocol , and they go around and they go to the international space station and take our 3d camera system .
that was fascinating .
but in the end , it turned out that i took space scientists with us to the deep sea .
i took them with me and i gave them access to the world down there : astrobiologists , planetary scientists , people who were interested in such extreme situations , and i took them to the sources so they could look around , sample and test instruments and so on .
we made documentary films , but we actually did science , which is , in fact , space science .
so the circle between my existence as a science fiction fan , then as a child , and the implementation to reality .
and if you haven &apos;t seen that in your business , you can be sure you &apos;re going to be .
in the course of this journey of discovery , i &apos;ve learned a lot .
i &apos;ve learned a lot about science , but i &apos;m sure you &apos;re thinking , a director has to be able to lead , be a leader like a shipping captain or something .
but i didn &apos;t understand much of leadership before i entered these expeditions .
because at some point , i had to say to myself , &quot; what am i doing here ?
why do i do that ? what &apos;s going to happen ? &quot;
these stupid movies don &apos;t bring us money .
we &apos;re going to play the cost of production . it &apos;s not a trace .
everybody thinks i &apos;d run away between titanic and avatar , and i would have celebrated the nails on a towel on a beach somewhere .
i made all these films , these documentary films , for a very small audience .
no fame , no honor , no money . what do you do ?
and what it does is it makes people walk into the business and ask that question .
you do it for the task , for the challenge , for the sake -- and the ocean is the most challenging environment there . you do it for the discovery of the universe , and because of the strange connection that comes out when a small group of people form a team of people .
because we did all of this with only 10 to 12 people who worked uninterrupted for years , sometimes we were two to three months in the back of the lake .
and in this community , you realize that the most important thing is the attention you have in front of each other , because you &apos;ve done a task that you can &apos;t explain to anyone else .
when you go back to land and say , &quot; we just didn &apos;t have to do it , the fiberglass , the sound weakness , and the whole thing around it , the whole technology , and the difficulty , the human performance , if you &apos;re working on the lake , &quot; you can &apos;t explain the other one . it &apos;s like the policemen or soldiers who have done something together and know that they can never explain it .
there is a connection , a mutual respect .
so when i came back to make my next film , &quot; avatar , &quot; i tried to use the same leadership , which is that you respect your team and you deserve the respect of it .
it really changed the dynamics .
so i stood there with a little team on unknown terrain , and we turned &quot; avatar &quot; with a new technology that didn &apos;t exist before .
incredibly exciting .
an enormous challenge .
now , you know what the answer to this question is ?
and we became a real family for a four-and-a-half period .
and by doing that , my way of making films changed completely .
there were people who thought that we would have been doing really well with these oceans and transporting them to the planet pandora .
for me , it was more of a principle way of doing my job , the actual process that changed in outcome .
so what can we conclude from all this ?
what lessons have we learned ?
i think the first thing is , the curiosity .
it &apos;s the most powerful human trait .
our imagination is a force that can even create reality .
and the attention of your team is more important than any lorbeer in the world .
the answer is no .
i have young filmmakers who say , &quot; give me a advice on how to do this . &quot;
and i say , &quot; don &apos;t confine yourself .
that &apos;s what other people get for you . don &apos;t do it for yourself , don &apos;t bet on yourself . take risks on you . &quot;
nasa has a favorite sentence : &quot; failure is not an alternative . &quot;
but in art and in exploration , failure has to be an alternative , because it guarantees trust .
no important endeavor that required innovation has ever been addressed without risk .
you have to be willing to take those risks .
that &apos;s the idea that i &apos;d like to leave you with . failure is just an alternative , but fear is not . thank you .
today i &apos;m going to talk to you about energy and climate .
and that may be surprising , because my full-time work at the foundation is all about vaccines and seed to do the things that we have to invent and deliver to the poorest two billion to make a better life .
it &apos;s not possible to buy a mobile phone that doesn &apos;t do too much .
but energy and climate are extremely important for these people , in fact , more important than anyone else on the planet .
climate deterioration means that their seeds are not going to grow over many years , it &apos;s too much or too little rain , and things are going to change the way it can &apos;t sustain its fragile environment .
that leads to starvation . it leads to uncertainty . it leads to unrest .
so , a climate change is going to be terrible for you .
and also , the energy cycle for them is very important .
in fact , if you could only reduce the price of one thing , it would be far more effective for poverty reduction .
well , the energy cycle has fallen over time .
in fact , the progress society is based on energy progress .
the coal evolution pushed the industrial revolution , and even in the 20th century , there was a rapid case in the electric cycle , and that &apos;s why we have refrigerators , air conditioning , we can make modern materials , and do so many things .
so we &apos;re in a wonderful situation with electricity in the rich world .
and yet , this horrible destiny actually happens to someone anywhere on earth , about every two weeks , because every two weeks , an elderly person dies and takes the last silver of an old language to the grave .
in other aspects of life , which are much more significant than buying objects , the same explosion of choice is true .
but if we reduce the price -- let &apos;s cut the price in half -- we meet a new barrier , and that barrier is related to co2 .
co2 heats the planet , and the equation for co2 is actually pretty clear .
they &apos;re summarizing the output of co2 , which leads to temperature increases , and this increase in temperature has some very negative consequences , effects on the weather and maybe worse , the indirect implications that the natural ecosystems can &apos;t adapt to such rapid changes and collapse whole systems .
well , the exact relationship between a co2 increase , and the amount of temperature change , and where it &apos;s going to follow , there are some ambiguity , but not very many .
and there is certainly ambiguity about how bad these consequences are going to be , but they &apos;re going to be extremely bad .
i asked the top scientists several times , &quot; do we really have to get down to zero ?
isn &apos;t that half or a quarter ? &quot;
the answer is , until we get close to zero , the temperature will continue to rise .
that &apos;s why it &apos;s a big challenge .
it &apos;s very different from saying , we have a 3.5 foot truck that has to be under a three-foot bridge , and then you can kind of squeeze it underneath .
health -- it &apos;s no longer the case in the united states that you go to the doctor , and the doctor tells you what to do .
this has to go down to zero .
well , we &apos;re emitting a lot of carbon dioxide every year , over 26 billion tons .
every american is about 20 tons . people from poor countries , less than one .
on average , it &apos;s about five tons for everyone on the planet .
and somehow , we have to produce changes that are going to reduce that to zero .
it &apos;s been up constant .
only different economic changes have it influenced at all , and we have to go from rapid rise to zero to zero .
this equation has four factors . a little bit multiplication . you have this thing on the left -- co2 that you want to get towards zero , and that &apos;s going to depend on the number of people , on the service that every human being uses , on average , the average energy for every service and the co2 that &apos;s emitted per unit of energy .
so let &apos;s look at every factor , and let &apos;s think about how we get that to zero .
probably one of those numbers has to get very close to zero .
instead , you go to the doctor , and the doctor tells you , we could do a , or we could do b .
now this is basic algebra , but let &apos;s go through it .
first , we have the population .
today , 6.8 billion people live .
and it &apos;s going to go to nine billion . it &apos;s going to move to nine billion .
if we &apos;re very successful with new vaccines , health care and reproduction medicine , we could probably reduce that by 10 to 15 percent , but right now we see a slope by 1.3 .
the second factor is the services that we use .
that includes everything , the food we eat , clothing , television , heating .
these are very good things and poverty reduction , which means making these services available to almost everyone on the planet .
it &apos;s great that that number goes up .
in the rich world , in the upper billion , we might be able to dispute and use less , but on average , that number is going to increase every year , and so in total , more than double , the number of services that are provided per person .
a has these benefits and these risks .
here we see a very basic service . is there light at home so that you can read the homework ?
and these students don &apos;t have it , so they go out and read their school assignments under the street light .
well , in efficiency , in the e , the energy per service , there &apos;s finally good news .
we have something that doesn &apos;t go up .
because of various successes in the light sector , through other autotypes , through new methods in the building of the house , there &apos;s a lot of services , where there &apos;s a lot of energy that some of the services are reduced by 90 percent .
in other services , like making fertilizers , 105 : 05 : 56,000 -- &amp; lt ; 00 : 05 : 58,000 or air traffic or air traffic , the playroom for improvement is much smaller .
in total , if we &apos;re optimistic , we might get a factor three or maybe even a factor of six .
but in the first three factors , we &apos;ve gone from 26 billion to maybe the best 13 billion tons , and that &apos;s just not enough .
so let &apos;s look at the fourth factor -- and this is going to be a key factor -- that &apos;s the amount of co2 that &apos;s emitted per unit of energy .
the question is , can you get this to zero ?
b has these benefits and these risks . what do you want to do ?
if you burn coal , no .
if you burn natural gas , no .
almost every manufacturing method for electricity today emitts co2 , except for renewables and nuclear energy .
so what we need to do at a global level is to create a new system .
we need energy miracles .
now , when i use the term &quot; miracle , &quot; i don &apos;t mean the impossible .
the microprocessor is a miracle . the pc is a miracle .
the internet and its service is a miracle .
people here have contributed to the development of many of these miracles .
usually , there &apos;s no deadline that you need a miracle up to a particular date .
and they say , &quot; doctor , what should i do ? &quot;
usually you &apos;re just kind of wrong , and some of them are coming , some of them are not .
but in this case , we have to give full gas and get a miracle in a very short time .
well , i wondered , how can i really get this over ?
is there a natural illustration , a demonstration that sparks the idea of people here ?
i remembered last year when i brought mosquitos , and somehow people liked that .
the idea became really tangible to you , you know , there are people living with mosquitos .
for energy , this is what i came up with .
i decided that leaving fireflies open would be my year contribution to the environment here .
so here are some natural fireflies .
i was told that they didn &apos;t bite . in fact , they probably won &apos;t even leave the glass .
the doctor says , a has these benefits and risks , and b has these benefits and these benefits .
well , there are all kinds of playful solutions like this , but they all don &apos;t get a lot .
we need solutions , either one or more , that have an incredible scale and unimaginable reliability , and even though there are many directions in which people are looking for it , i really only see five that can afford these great demands .
i &apos;ve left out geothermal , fusion and biofuels .
they may be doing a modern contribution , and if they &apos;re doing better than i expect , that would be great , but my core statement here is that we have to work on all those five , and we can &apos;t give up any of them because they &apos;re intimidating us , because they all have significant problems .
let &apos;s first look at burning fossil fuels , burning either coal or natural gas .
what you have to do there may seem simple , but it &apos;s not . you have to capture all the co2 that comes out of the chimneys , under pressure , and then store somewhere , and hope it &apos;s there .
there are some pilot projects that can do this at a 60 percent -- 80 percent level , but getting it to 100 percent is going to be very difficult , and getting a deal with the co2 storage is a big challenge , but the biggest problem here is the warehouse .
who will make it secure ?
who can guarantee something that can literally make billions of times bigger than any kind of waste you can imagine of nuclear and other things ?
that &apos;s a lot of volume .
what do you want to do ?
so this is a tough nut .
next , nuclear energy .
it also has three big problems . the cost , especially in highly regulated countries , is high , and the question for security is that you really feel that nothing can go wrong despite the human cooperation that the fuel is not used for weapons .
and then what do you do with the waste ?
because even though it &apos;s not very big , there &apos;s a lot of concerns .
so three very difficult problems that might be solvable , and that &apos;s why you should be working on .
i &apos;ve summarized the last three of the five .
it &apos;s renewables , as they &apos;re often called .
and they also have -- although it &apos;s great that they don &apos;t need a fuel -- they have some disadvantages .
one , the energy density that these technologies generate is dramatically lower than the power plants .
and if you said , &quot; if you were me , doctor , what would you do ? &quot;
these are energy farms , you &apos;re talking about many square kilometers , thousands of times more land than a normal power station .
and also , these sources are interruptive .
the sun doesn &apos;t shine all day , it doesn &apos;t shine every day , and the wind doesn &apos;t keep blowing .
that &apos;s why , if you &apos;re dependent on these sources , you have to have a way to get the energy in times when it &apos;s not available .
so there are big challenges here . there are challenges in transmission . for example , if we say that the energy source is outside the country , you don &apos;t just need the technology , you need to deal with the risk that the energy comes from where else .
and there &apos;s the storage problem .
and to show you the dimension , i &apos;ve looked at all kinds of batteries that are made : cars , computers , cell phones , pocket lights , for everything , and i &apos;ve compared that to the amount of electronic energy that the world uses , and i &apos;ve found that all the batteries that we &apos;re producing now could store less than 10 minutes of total energy .
so we need a big breakthrough here , which is something that &apos;s going to be a factor of 100 better than the approaches at the moment .
it &apos;s not impossible , but it &apos;s not that easy .
this is what happens when you try to get these interrupted sources about 20 percent -- 30 percent of the consumption .
the doctor says , &quot; but i &apos;m not you . &quot;
if you want to support yourself by 100 percent , you need an incredible battery .
now , where should we go : what &apos;s the right approach ?
a manhattan project ? how do we get to the goal ?
what we need is a lot of companies that work on this . hundreds .
in each of these five areas , we need at least 100 people .
many people will say , they &apos;re crazy ! that &apos;s good .
i think here at the ted group , there are a lot of people who are already engaged there .
bill gross has several companies , including one called esolar , which has great solar technology .
vinod khosla is investing in dozens of companies that do great things and have interesting opportunities , and i &apos;m trying to support that .
nathan myhrvold and i are funding a company that , perhaps surprisingly , tracks the nuclear approach .
and i know some of you say , &quot; isn &apos;t it better ? &quot; wouldn &apos;t the world be a better place if we all talked only one language ? &quot; and i say , &quot; well , let this language be yoruba . let it be candian .
the result is -- we call it &quot; patient autonomy . &quot; it sounds like a good thing , but in reality , a shift in the burden of responsibility for making decisions from someone who knows something -- namely , the doctor -- to someone who doesn &apos;t know , and most likely , is not in the best constitution of making a decision -- namely , the patient .
there are some innovations in the nuclear sector ; modular , liquid .
the development stopped in this industry a while ago , so it &apos;s not a great surprise that some good concepts are lying around .
the terrapowers concept means that instead of a part of the uranium , the one percent , the u235 , we decided to burn the 99 percent , the u238 .
that &apos;s a pretty crazy idea .
but in fact , you &apos;ve been thinking about it for a long time , but you &apos;ve never been able to reasonably simulate whether it would work , but since there &apos;s modern supercomputers , you can simulate it and see that , yes , with the right material approach , it looks like it &apos;s going to work .
and because you burn this 99 percent , it &apos;s much better for free .
in fact , you burn the waste , and you can actually use the waste of today &apos;s reactors as a propulsion device .
instead of breaking your head , you just burn it . it &apos;s a great thing .
the uranium is used gradually , a little bit like a candle .
you can see that it &apos;s a kind of column , often called a &quot; wandering wave reactor . &quot;
there &apos;s an enormous marketing for prescription drugs for people like you and me , which , if you think about it , makes no sense at all , because we don &apos;t buy them .
that really solves the fuel problem .
here &apos;s a picture of a place in kentucky .
this is the waste , the 99 percent . you &apos;ve taken out the part that &apos;s burned today , so it &apos;s called a consumed uranium .
this is what drives the u.s. for hundreds of years .
and if you make ocean water cheap and easy to film , you get enough fuel for the rest of the life on the planet .
you know , there are many challenges , but it &apos;s an example of many hundreds of concepts that we need to get forward .
let &apos;s think about how we should measure our success .
what should our testimony look like ?
well , let &apos;s go to the goal that we need to reach , and then we talk about the intermediate step .
many are talking about an 80 percent reduction by 2050 .
why do they advertise around us if we can &apos;t buy ?
it &apos;s really important that we get there .
the rest of the 20 percent will be produced in poor countries , and still some agriculture , and hopefully whale threat and cement will be clean up until then .
so in order to achieve this 80 percent , the developed world , including countries like china , has to completely reverse its electricity generation .
the other note is whether we use the zero-emission technology , whether it &apos;s used in all the developed countries , and we &apos;re on the way to getting it to the rest .
that &apos;s really important .
that &apos;s going to be a key element of this stuff .
if we go back from there , what would that look like in 2020 ?
it should contain the two elements again .
we should use the effectiveness actions to get reductions on the way , and the less we emitte , the less carbon dioxide is going to be lower , and the temperature is going to be lower .
but in fact , this note for the things that we do that don &apos;t fully lead to the big reductions , just the same , or even a little less important than the others , which is the speed of innovation for this breakthrough .
the answer is , they expect us to call the doctor the next morning and ask us to change the prescription .
we have to track these breakthroughs with full gas , and we can measure this : in corporate numbers , in pilot projects and regulation changes .
there &apos;s a lot of great books about this .
the al gore book &quot; we have a choice &quot; and david mckays &apos; &quot; sustainable energy without the hot air . &quot;
they really go through it , and they create a framework where this can be discussed , because we need support from all sides .
there are some things that have to come together .
that &apos;s a wish .
a very concrete wish that we &apos;re inventing this technology .
if you just gave me a wish for the next 50 years , i could choose the president , a vaccine , and i love that , or i could choose that wish , which is , halfway through the energy cycle with no co2 , i would take that wish .
it has the biggest impact .
if we don &apos;t get that wish , the dig between the long term and the short-term thinking people will be terrible between the united states and china , between the poor and the rich , and almost all of those two billion will be much worse .
something as profound as our identity is now a question of how to show this slide .
so what do we need to do ?
what are i appealing to ?
we need to use for more research funding .
when countries come together in places like coppenhagen , they shouldn &apos;t just talk about co2 .
you should be talking about this innovation strategy , and you would be shocked by the ridiculous funds that are spent on these innovative approaches .
we need market stimulus , carbon taxes , cap &amp; amp ; trade , something that creates a price signal .
we have to spread the message .
we need to have dialogue more rational and more complete , and also the things that are done by the government .
it &apos;s an important wish , but i think we can fulfill it .
thank you .
we don &apos;t inherit identity ; we invent it .
thank you .
thank you . thank you .
thank you very much . just to understand terrapower a little bit better -- first of all , can you give us an idea of the scale of this investment ?
bill gates : to do the simulation on a supercomputer , to get all the big scientists , what we &apos;ve done , we only need a few 10 million , and even if we &apos;ve tested our materials in a russian reactor to make sure that it works reasonably , you &apos;re only in the 100 million .
the hard step is to build the first reactor , find another billion , the regularia and the place that actually builds the first of them .
once the first one is done , when it &apos;s done , it &apos;s pretty clear , because the economy , the energy density , is as different from the nuclear energy as we know it .
to understand this right , that means to build deep into the ground , almost like a vertical column of nuclear fuel , this consumed uranium , and then the process starts up and continues to work down ?
bg : right . now you have to refill the reactor , so there &apos;s a lot of people and a lot of controls that can go wrong . this thing where you open it up and put things in -- or out . that &apos;s not good !
but if you have very cheap fuel , you can fill it for 60 years -- think of a column -- that they bury without all the complexity .
and it &apos;s sitting there burning for 60 years , and then it &apos;s done .
and we &apos;re reinventing ourselves as often as we want .
a nuclear reactor , which provides a solution to the waste itself .
bg : yeah . well , what happens to the garbage : you can let it sit -- there &apos;s a lot less garbage with this method -- then you take it and you put it in the next reactor and you burn it .
and we start by taking the waste that already exists in these refrigerators or dry containers in the reactors . that &apos;s our starting fuel .
so what was a problem for these reactors is what we fill in our own , and it &apos;s dramatically reduced the volume of garbage in the process .
but while they were talking to different people in the world about these possibilities .
where is the biggest interest in actually doing this ?
bg : well , we haven &apos;t yet found ourselves in a place , and there &apos;s a lot of interesting revelation rules for everything that &quot; nuclear &quot; in the name . there &apos;s a lot of interest , and the people of the company were in russia , india , china , i was here , and i met the energy minister , and i talked about how this fits to the energy agenda .
i &apos;m optimistic . you know , the french and japanese have done something in the direction .
this is a variant of one thing that was done .
this is an important step forward , but it &apos;s like a faster reactor , and some countries have built this one , so anyone who has implemented a fast reactor is a candidate for our first one .
that means that every day , if you wake up in the morning , you have to decide what kind of person you want to be .
in your mind , time frame and probability to really get this to life ?
bg : well , we need one of these scalable , electricity generating things that are very cheap , we have 20 years to invent , and then we have 20 years to use .
this is kind of the deadline that showed us the environmental models that we need to stop .
and , you know , terrapower , if everything is going well , and that &apos;s a big wish , it could be easily held .
and luckily , today , there are dozens of companies , and we need hundreds , which , just as their approaches work , can provide the promotion for their pilots .
and it would be best if it could be done by several , because then you could use a mixture .
anyway , we need a solution .
the great breakthrough is this the biggest thing you know ?
bg : an energy breakthrough is the most important thing .
it would have been without the environmental requirement , but it makes it so much more important .
in terms of marriage and family , there was a time when the standard assumption was that almost everybody had one , and they got married as fast as they could , and then they got children as quickly as they could .
in the nuclear sector , there are other innovative companies .
you know , we don &apos;t know their work as well as this , but there &apos;s a modular method , which is a different approach .
there &apos;s a liquid reactor type that seems a little bit difficult , but maybe they say that about us .
and so there are different , but the nice thing is that a uranium molecule has a million times as much energy as one , say , a coal-fired molecule , and therefore , if you can deal with the problems , and they &apos;re mostly the radiation , the footprint and the cost , the potential is to play the impact on the land and other things , almost in your own league .
if that doesn &apos;t work , then what ?
do we have to bring in emergency measures to try to keep the temperature stable ?
bg : when you get into this situation , it &apos;s like you &apos;ve eaten too much , and you &apos;re about to have a heart attack . what do you do ? you might need a heart surgery or something .
there &apos;s a research direction called geoengineering , which involves different techniques to delay global warming , so that we could get 20 or 30 years longer to get together .
this is just a insurance method .
you hope we don &apos;t need that .
the only real choice was &quot; who , &quot; not when , and not what they did after that .
some people say you shouldn &apos;t be working on insurance , because maybe that &apos;s going to make you bad , so you keep eating , because you know you &apos;re going to save your heart surgery .
i don &apos;t know if that &apos;s smart , if you look at the importance of this problem , but there &apos;s now a discourse in geoengineering about whether you should have that , if things come faster , or that innovation takes longer than we expect .
climaskeptists : do you have one or two sentences for them to maybe convince you ?
bg : well , unfortunately , the skeptics live in very different camps .
those who make scientific arguments are very little .
do you say that there are negative implications that have to do with the clouds that move things ?
there are very , very few things that you can even say , of which there is a chance in a million .
the main problem here is similar to aids .
you make the mistake now , and you pay for it a lot later .
and so the idea is , now , if you have all kinds of urgent problems to invest in something that you have something later on -- and the investment is not so clear . in fact , the ipcc report is not necessarily the worst case scenario , and there are people in the rich world who are looking at ipcc and saying , okay , that &apos;s not a big drama .
let it go . &quot;
today , everything is easy to have .
the fact is that this uncertainty should worry us .
but my dream here is that if you can do it economically , and you can do it at the same time , the skeptics say , &quot; okay , i &apos;m not interested in the fact that it doesn &apos;t emitte co2 , i wish it would do it , but i &apos;m going to accept it because it &apos;s cheaper than the previous method . &quot;
and that would be their answer to the bjordan lomborg argument that if you use all this time and energy to solve the co2 problem , all the other goals suffer , the poverty reduction , the malaria reduction , and so on , there &apos;s a stupid waste of resources to invest money while there are better things we can do .
bg : well , the actual spending on the research -- let &apos;s say the u.s. should spend 10 billion more a year than they do today -- that &apos;s not so dramatic .
it should not suffer other things .
you get to a large amount of money , and here you can disagree with reasonable people , if you have something that &apos;s not economic , and you try to fund that , and for me , most of the waste is happening here .
unless you &apos;re very short before a cost breakthrough and you &apos;re still funding the learning curve , i think we should try to do more things that have the potential to be much cheaper .
if the abstrich you get is a very high energy cycle , then only the rich can keep up .
i mean , each of us here could spend five times as much on our energy without changing its lifestyle .
but for the bottom two billion , it &apos;s a disaster .
i teach wonderful intelligent students , and i give them 20 percent less work than i used to do .
and even lomborg thinks about it .
his new masche is now , &quot; why won &apos;t the research be discussed anymore ? &quot;
he &apos;s still associated with the skeptic camp because of his earlier stories , but he understood that this is a very lonely group , and so he &apos;s now making the research argument .
and this is a thought that i think is appropriate .
the research , it &apos;s just crazy how little it &apos;s supported .
bill , i think i &apos;m speaking for almost all the people here when i say , i really hope that your wish will be true . thank you very much .
bg : thank you .
a few years ago , here at ted , peter skillman introduced a design competition called &quot; the marshmallow challenge . &quot;
the idea is pretty simple . four-foot teams have to build the largest open structure with 20 spaghetti , about 1-foot tape , about 1-foot threads and a marshmallow .
the marshmallow has to be on top .
and that &apos;s not because they &apos;re less smart , not because they &apos;re less careful .
and , although it seems really simple , it &apos;s actually really hard , because it urges people to work very quickly .
and so i thought this was an interesting idea , and i turned it into a design workshop .
it was a huge success .
since then , i &apos;ve done about 70 workshops around the world , with students , developers and architects , even with ctos of fortune 50-company , and there &apos;s something about this task , which gives deep insights into the nature of collaboration , and i want to share some of them with you .
usually , most people start to self-orient to the task .
you &apos;re talking about what it &apos;s going to look like , you &apos;re going to run around .
then they spend a little bit of time in planning and organization , and they sketch and lay out spaghetti .
they spend most of their time in the assembly of ever-growing structures .
and finally , just before you don &apos;t have time , someone takes the marshmallow , and you put it on the top , step back , and &quot; ta-da &quot; -- admire your work .
but what happens , almost always , is that the ta-da becomes a &quot; uh-oh , &quot; because the weight of the marshmallow causes the whole thing to bend and fall down .
it &apos;s because they &apos;re busy with other things , they ask themselves , &quot; should i marry or shouldn &apos;t i ? should i marry now ?
there are a number of people who have much more &quot; uh-oh &quot; moments than others , and among the worst of them , there are fresh bwl graduates .
they lie , they cheat , they &apos;re confused , and they really produce droughts .
and of course , there are teams who have much more &quot; ta-da &quot; shapes , and the best ones are fresh graduates from kindergarten .
and that &apos;s pretty amazing .
as peter told us , they not only produce the highest towers , but also the most interesting structures of all .
what you might ask is : how is that ? why ? what about those ?
and peter says , &quot; none of the children spend time being the head of the spaghetti gmbh . &quot;
they don &apos;t spend time in power fights .
but there &apos;s another reason .
and that is that bwl students were trained to find the right plan , ok !
should i get married later ? should i have children , or should i have a career ? &quot;
and then realizing it .
what happens when you put the marshmallow on the top , you don &apos;t have time , and what happens ?
it &apos;s a crisis .
sounds familiar , what ?
what children are doing differently is they &apos;re starting to build prototypes with the marshmallow , successful prototypes , always with the marshmallow at the top , so that they have multiple times the ability to repair bloody prototypes .
constructors recognize this kind of collaboration as the core of an iterative process .
and with every trial , the kids get immediate feedback , what works and what doesn &apos;t .
so the power of working with prototypes is essential -- but let &apos;s see how different teams are operating .
the average for most of them is about 50 inches , bwl students are creating half of them , lawyers are doing a little bit more , but not much , kindergarten children are better than adults .
who is the most successful ?
they &apos;re all engaging questions .
architects and engineers , fortunately .
one meter is the highest thing i &apos;ve seen .
and why ? because they understand triangles and self-empowering geometric patterns are the key to building stable structures .
ceos are a little bit about average . but this is where it gets interesting .
if you put an executive administrator on the team , they get significantly better .
it &apos;s incredible . you look around and you see , &quot; this team will win . &quot;
you can predict that . why is that ?
because they have special skills of the process companion .
you run the process , you understand it .
and that team that rules and looks at the work is going to significantly improve the performance of the team .
and they &apos;re going to answer these questions , no matter whether that means doing all the tasks that i &apos;m going to do , and not getting a good note in my class .
specialized skills and processing skills and their combination lead to success .
if you have 10 teams that are typical , you get about six of them that have stable structures .
i was trying to do something interesting now .
i thought , we &apos;re going to bring the poker .
so i offered a $ 10,000 price of software for the winners .
what do you think happened to these design students ?
what was the result ?
this is what happened . not a team had a stable structure .
if anyone had built a two-inch construction , they would have carried the price home .
so isn &apos;t it interesting that high competitions have a strong effect ?
and in fact , you should do that . these are important to answer questions .
we repeated this practice with the same students .
so what do you think happened ?
now they understood the benefit of the prototyping .
so from the same , bad team , one under the best .
they produced the highest construction in the least time .
so there are deep lessons for us , about the nature of drive and success .
you might ask : why would someone actually spend time creating a marshmallow challenge ?
the reason is , i &apos;m helping create digital tools and processes to help teams create cars , video games and visual effects .
and what the marshmallow challenge does is it helps them identify hidden assumptions .
because frankly , every project has its own marshmallow .
work -- we &apos;re blessed , as carl pointed out , with the technology that allows us to work every minute from every place on the planet , all the way to the randolph hotel .
the challenge offers a shared experience , a common language , or basic , to build the right prototype .
and this is the value of this experience , this simple practice .
and those of you who are interested in it can visit marshmallowchallenge.com .
it &apos;s a blog where you see how to build the marshmallows .
there &apos;s a step-by-step manual there .
they find crazy examples from all over the world of how people are optimizing and refining the system .
there are also world records .
and the basic lesson , i think , is that construction is actually a connecting sport .
it demands that we all do our senses on the task , and that we use our thinking optimally , like our feelings and our doing , in the challenge that we face .
and sometimes a small prototype of this experience is all it takes to get us from a &quot; uh-oh &quot; -- to a &quot; ta-da &quot; moment .
there &apos;s a corner , by the way , that i &apos;m not going to tell you about , that the wiring plan works on .
and that can make a big difference .
thank you .
let &apos;s pretend that we have a machine here .
a big machine , a cool , ted machine , and that &apos;s a time machine .
and everyone in this room has to go in .
and you can go to the past , you can go to the future ; you can &apos;t stay here and now .
and i wonder what you would choose , because i &apos;ve often asked my friends this question lately , and they wanted to go into the past .
i don &apos;t know . they wanted to go back to time before there were cars , or twitter , or &quot; america is looking for the superstar . &quot;
i don &apos;t know .
i believe that you &apos;ve kind of moved to nostalgia , to wonder .
and then you would suddenly realize what it would be like if you couldn &apos;t speak your own language .
i &apos;m not going to tell you because i want to use it .
and i understand that .
i &apos;m not part of this group , i have to say .
i don &apos;t want to go into the past , and that &apos;s not because i &apos;m an adventurer .
it &apos;s because options on this planet are not going back , they &apos;re going forward .
so i want to go into this machine , and i want to go into the future .
this is the greatest time we &apos;ve ever had on this planet , no matter what scale they &apos;re going to do : health , wealth , mobility , opportunities , declining disease .
there &apos;s never been a time like this before .
my great-grandparents all died when they were 60 .
my grandparents pushed this number to 70 .
my parents are on the 80s .
so what it means is this incredible freedom of choice we have to make decisions about work , over and over again , whether we should or not work .
so there should be a nine in the beginning of my death number .
but it &apos;s not even about people like us , because this is a bigger thing than that .
a child born today in new delhi can expect to live as long as the richest man in the world 100 years ago .
think about it . that &apos;s an incredible fact .
and why is that ?
the smallpox . the smallpox killed billions of people on the planet .
they &apos;ve reformed the demographics of the earth in a way that no war has ever done .
they &apos;re gone . they &apos;re gone .
we forced them . puff .
in the rich world , there are diseases that have threatened millions of us only one generation ago , hardly yet .
we can watch our kids play football , and we have our cell phone on one hip , and our blackberry on other hips , and probably our laptop on our lap .
diphoma , roman , child paralysis ...
does anybody know what that is ?
vaccines , modern medicine , our ability to feed billions of people , are successes of scientific method .
and in my view , the scientific method of trying things out is to see if it works , it changes , if it doesn &apos;t , one of the greatest achievements of humanity .
so that &apos;s the good news .
unfortunately , that &apos;s the whole good news , because there &apos;s a few other problems , and they &apos;ve been mentioned a lot .
and one of them is that , despite all of our achievements , a billion people in the world are going to bed hungry every day .
that number goes up , and it goes up very quickly , and that &apos;s embarrassing .
and not only that , we &apos;ve used our imagination to devastating this world thoroughly .
drinking water , urable land , rainforests , oil , gas : they &apos;re disappearing , and soon , if we don &apos;t get out of this chaos , we &apos;re going to disappear .
and even if you &apos;re all turned off , every minute we watch our child mutilate a football game , we also ask ourselves , &quot; should i take that call ?
so the question is : can we do that ? i think so .
i think it &apos;s clear that we can produce food that will feed billions of people without raping the land that they live on .
i think we can power this world that they don &apos;t destroy at the same time .
i really believe that , and no , that &apos;s not a wonder .
but this is what keeps me awake at night -- one of the things that keeps me awake at night . we &apos;ve never needed scientific progress as badly as now , never .
and we &apos;ve never been able to use it reasonably as we can today .
we &apos;re at the threshold of amazing , amazing events in many areas , and yet i really think that we need to go back hundreds , 300 years before the enlightenment , to find a time when we &apos;ve fought progress , where we &apos;ve driven these things more hard , to more fronts than now .
people are wrapping up in their faith , so close that you can &apos;t free them .
not even the truth will liberate it .
and listen , everyone has a right to their opinion , even a right to their opinion of progress .
should i answer this email ? should i write this letter ? &quot;
but you know what you &apos;re not right for ?
they don &apos;t have a right to their own facts . &apos; sorry , they don &apos;t .
and it took me a while to figure that out .
about a decade ago , i wrote an article about vaccine for &quot; the new yorker , &quot; a little article .
and i was amazed to repel to resistance , to resistance to what is the most effective thing in health care in the history of humanity .
i didn &apos;t know what to do , so i just did what i always do , i wrote an article , and i went on .
and soon after that , i wrote an article about genetically engineered food .
the same thing , just bigger .
people were playing crazy .
so i also wrote an article about this , and i couldn &apos;t understand why people thought that was &quot; frankenfood , &quot; why they thought that molecules were moving around in a certain way , rather than a random way , was a way to overcome nature .
and even though the answer to the question &quot; no , &quot; it &apos;s certainly going to be your experience of your child &apos;s football game very different than it would have been .
but you know , i do what i do . i wrote the article , i kept going .
i mean , i &apos;m a journalist .
we type , we type in , we eat , that &apos;s okay .
but i was worried about these articles , and i couldn &apos;t figure out why , and eventually i figured it out .
and that &apos;s because these fanatics that made me mad at all weren &apos;t fanatics .
these were careful people , educated people , decent people .
they were just like the people in this room .
and that made me so mess .
but then i thought , you know what , let &apos;s face it .
we &apos;ve come to a point where we don &apos;t have the same relationship with progress as we used to .
everywhere we look , big things and small things , material things and lifestyle , life is a question of choice .
we &apos;re twin about it .
we &apos;re talking ironically about it , with little guides about it , &quot; progress . &quot;
okay , there are reasons , and i think we know what the reasons are .
we have the trust in institutions , in authority , and sometimes in science itself , and there &apos;s no reason why it shouldn &apos;t be .
you can just call a few names , and people will understand .
chernobyl , bhopal , the challengers , viox , weapons of mass destruction , the u.s. presidential election in 2000 .
i mean , you know , you can choose your own list .
there are questions and problems with the people that we thought were always right , so be skeptical .
ask questions , ask for evidence , ask for evidence .
don &apos;t take anything for granted .
and the world that we lived in looked like this .
but here &apos;s the thing : if you get evidence , you have to take this evidence , and we &apos;re not good at it .
and i can say that for the reason that we are now living in an epidemic of fear , as i &apos;ve never seen it , and hopefully never seen again .
about 12 years ago , a story was published , a horrible story that connected the autism epidemic to the masses , mumps , and roman vaccine .
very scary .
there were some studies done to see if that was true .
there &apos;s a lot of studies to be done ; that &apos;s a serious issue .
the data came in .
the data came in from the united states , from england , from sweden , from canada , and they were all the same , no correlation , no connection , no connection , no one .
it doesn &apos;t matter . it doesn &apos;t matter , because we believe in anecdotes , we believe what we see , what we think we see , what makes us feel real .
we don &apos;t believe in a bundle of documents from a government leader who gives us data , and i understand that , i think , we all do .
so i mean , there were some choices , but not all of it was a matter of choice .
but you know what ?
the result of that was catastrophic .
catastrophic because of this fact : the united states is one of the only countries in the world where the vaccinators are falling for masses .
this is scandalous , and we should be ashamed .
it &apos;s terrible .
what happened is that we could do that .
well , i understand that . i do .
because does anybody here have masses ?
has a single one in the audience ever seen anyone die of masses ?
it doesn &apos;t happen very often .
and the world that we live in now looks like this .
it doesn &apos;t happen at all in this country , but 160,000 times in the world last year .
that &apos;s a lot of deaths from masses , 20 per hour .
but because this didn &apos;t happen here , we can deny it , and people like jenny mccarthy can walk around and send messages from fear and illiteracy from platforms like oprah and larry king live preaches .
and they can do that because they don &apos;t connect cause and correlation .
they don &apos;t understand that these things seem to be the same , but almost never the same .
and that &apos;s something we need to learn , and it &apos;s very fast .
this guy was a hero , jonas salk .
he liberated us from one of the worst minds of humanity .
no fear , no excruciating , no child &apos;s paralysis , no puff , disappeared .
the guy in the middle is not so much .
so today , i want to take you on a journey through the ethnosphere , a quick journey through the ethnosphere , to try to understand to you what &apos;s actually been lost .
and the question is , is that good news or bad news ?
it &apos;s called paul offit .
he &apos;s just developed a rotavius vaccine with a few other people .
it can save the lives of 400- , 500,000 children a year in the developing world .
pretty good , right ?
well , that &apos;s good , except for paul to walk around and talk about vaccines and say how valuable they are , and that people should just stop jamming .
and he actually says that .
so paul is a terrorist .
when paul talks in a public hearing , he can &apos;t say without armed guards .
he gets calls at home because people like to tell him that they know where his kids go to school .
and why ? because paul made a vaccine .
the answer is yes .
i don &apos;t need to say that , but vaccines are essential .
if you take them away , go back to the diseases , terrible diseases , and that &apos;s what &apos;s going on .
we now have masses in this country .
and that gets worse , and pretty soon , children will die again , because that &apos;s just a question of numbers .
and they &apos;re not just going to die of masses .
what about child paralysis ? let &apos;s take that . why not ?
a commiliton of mine wrote me a couple of weeks ago , and she said , i think i &apos;m a little too shrimp .
no one has ever said that before .
she wouldn &apos;t vaccinate her child against child paralysis . no way .
fine .
we all know what &apos;s good about it , so i &apos;m going to talk about what &apos;s bad about it .
why ? because we don &apos;t have a child paralysis . and you know what ?
we didn &apos;t have a childhood paralysis in this country yesterday .
today , i don &apos;t know , maybe somebody in lagos this morning , and they &apos;re flying to los angeles , and right now they &apos;re over ohio .
and in a few hours , he &apos;s landing and renting a car , and he &apos;s coming to long beach , and he &apos;s going to visit one of these fantastic ted dinner tonight .
and he doesn &apos;t know that he &apos;s infected with a paralyzing disease , and we don &apos;t know that either , because that &apos;s how the world works .
this is the planet we live on . don &apos;t pretend it &apos;s not .
we love to wrap up in lies . we love that .
did you all take your vitamins this morning ?
echinacea , a little antioxidantium that helps you on the jump .
i know you &apos;ve done this because half the americans do this every day .
all of these choices have two effects , two negative effects on people .
they take the stuff , and they take alternative cure , and it doesn &apos;t matter how often we find out they &apos;re useless .
the data shows it all the time .
they evaporate their urine . they almost never do .
that &apos;s okay , you &apos;d like to pay 28 billion dollars for dark urine .
i agree with you completely .
dark urine . dark .
why do we do that ? why do we do that ?
well , i think i understand -- we hate the pharmaceutical industry .
we hate too much government . we don &apos;t have faith in the system .
and we shouldn &apos;t . our healthcare system is mies .
one effect , paradoxically , is that he &apos;s paralyzed instead of liberating .
it &apos;s cruel to millions of people .
it &apos;s absolutely astonishingly cold and soul to ourselves that can afford it .
so we &apos;re going away from that , and where are we going ?
we &apos;re going into the arms of the placebo industry .
that &apos;s great . i love the placebo industry .
but you know , this is really a serious issue , because the stuff is crap , and we spend billions of dollars on it .
and i have all kinds of little props here .
none of them -- gingko , fraud , echinacea , fraud , acai , i don &apos;t even know what that is , but we spend billions of dollars on it , it &apos;s fraud .
and you know what ? when i say that , people scream at me and they say , &quot; what cares ? let people do what they want .
that &apos;s how you feel good . &quot;
with so many options you can choose , people have a very hard time deciding .
and you know what ? they &apos;re wrong .
because i don &apos;t care if it &apos;s the minister of health , who says , &quot; hmm , i &apos;m not going to take the evidence of my experts on mammography , &quot; or any cancer-squatter who wants to treat his patients with caffe-type .
if you go on this path , where belief and magic replace evidence and science , you get to a place where you don &apos;t want to be .
they get to thabo mbeki in south africa .
he killed 400,000 of his people because he insisted that red beete , bone and lemon oil are much more effective than antiretroviral drugs that we know can break down the course of aids .
hundreds of thousands of unnecessary deaths in a country that &apos;s worse than any other disease .
please don &apos;t tell me that these things don &apos;t have consequences .
they have them . they always have them .
now , the most brainless epidemic that we &apos;re in right now is this absurd struggle between the advocates of genetically modified food and the bio-elite .
this is an idiotic debate . it has to stop .
i &apos;m going to give you another dramatic example of this , a study of investment in volunteer age care .
it &apos;s a debate about words , about metaphors .
this is ideology , not science .
everything we eat , every rice , every branch of petersily , every rose coat , was changed by people .
you know , there were no mandarins in paradise .
there were no cantal melons .
there were no christmas trees . we did all this .
we &apos;ve done it in the last 11,000 years .
and some of it worked and some of it didn &apos;t work .
we got rid of what didn &apos;t work .
now we can do it more closely , and of course there are risks , but we can do something like vitamin a in rice , and the stuff can help millions of people to extend their lives .
a colleague of mine had access to vanguard investment records , the giant fund society of about a million employees and about 2,000 different jobs .
don &apos;t you want to do that ?
i have to say , i don &apos;t understand that .
we reject genetically engineered food .
why do we do that ?
now , what i hear all the time is : too many chemicals , pesticides , hormones , monoculture , we don &apos;t want huge fields with one thing , which is wrong .
we don &apos;t want companies to patent lives .
we don &apos;t want companies to have seeds .
and you know what my answer to all this is ?
yes , you &apos;re right . let &apos;s fix that .
it &apos;s true , we have a huge food problem , but that &apos;s not science .
and what she found was per 10 investment fund that the employer offered , took the participation down by two percent .
this has nothing to do with science .
it &apos;s right , morality , patent stuff .
you know , science is not a company .
it &apos;s not a country .
it &apos;s not even an idea ; it &apos;s a process .
it &apos;s a process , and sometimes it works and sometimes it doesn &apos;t , but the idea that we shouldn &apos;t allow science to do its work , because we &apos;re afraid to do a real disc , and it keeps millions of people from flourishing .
you know , in the next 50 years , we &apos;re going to have to grow 70 percent more food than right now . 70 percent .
this investment in africa in the last 30 years .
shame . shame .
you need that , and we don &apos;t give it to you .
they offer 50 investment fund -- 10 percent less employees participate than if they were only offering five . why ?
and why ? why ? genetically engineered food .
we don &apos;t want to encourage people to eat this rotten stuff , like manioc .
maniok is something that half a billion people eat .
it &apos;s kind of like a potato .
it &apos;s just a bunch of calories . it &apos;s mies .
it has no nutrients , it has no protein , and scientists are building all this stuff in it .
and then people could eat it , and they wouldn &apos;t be blind .
you wouldn &apos;t starve , and you know what ?
that would be nice . it wouldn &apos;t be chez panisse , but it would be beautiful .
and all i can say is , why do we fight that ?
we &apos;re all born . we bring children to the world .
now , there are some of us who kind of forget that when i say &quot; different possibilities of being , &quot; i really mean different possibilities of being .
because it &apos;s 50 investment fonds that are chosen , it &apos;s so hard to decide which one to choose to put it in the morning .
i mean , let &apos;s ask ourselves , why do we fight this ?
because we don &apos;t want to push genes around ?
it &apos;s not about pushing genes around . it &apos;s not about chemicals .
it &apos;s not about our ridiculous passion for hormones , our persistence on larger food , better food , unique food .
it &apos;s not about rice krispies , it &apos;s about keeping people alive , and it &apos;s going to be the highest time to understand what that means .
because you know what ?
if we don &apos;t do that , if we continue to do that , we &apos;re going to be guilty of something that i think we don &apos;t want to be guilty of , high-tech colonialism .
there &apos;s no other description of what &apos;s going on here .
it &apos;s selfish , it &apos;s ugly , it &apos;s not worthy , and we really have to stop that .
so after this incredibly funny conversation , you might want to say , &quot; do you still want to go into this ridiculous time machine and the future ? &quot;
and then tomorrow , and then tomorrow , and tomorrow , and tomorrow , and tomorrow , of course , never comes .
anyway . i certainly want that .
right now , it &apos;s in the present , but we have an incredible opportunity .
we can put this time machine on everything we want .
we can move them where we want to go , and we &apos;re going to move them where we want to go .
we have to have these conversations , and we have to think , but when we go into the time machine , and we &apos;re going to be happy to have done that .
i know that we can , and as far as i &apos;m concerned , that &apos;s something that the world needs now .
thank you .
thank you .
i &apos;ve been interested in the placebo effect for a while . it may seem strange that a magician is interested in this , unless , you look at it as me , &quot; a deception that becomes something real , if someone believes enough . &quot;
in other words , sugar pills have shown in some studies a measurable effect , the placebo effect , and that &apos;s just because the person thinks what happens to them is a pharmaceutical or a kind of ... in pain management , for example , if the patient believes enough , there &apos;s a measurable effect in the body called the placebo effect .
you understand that it &apos;s not just that people have to eat dog food when they retire , because they don &apos;t have enough money to go back , it means making decisions so hard that they miss large investment offers of their employers .
a deception becomes something real , because someone perceives it that way .
so , in order for us to understand each other , i want to show you a very basic , simple magic trick .
and i &apos;m going to show you how it works . this is a trick that &apos;s at least in every magic book for children since the 1950s .
i learned him from cub scout magic from the path finder in the 1970s .
i &apos;m going to do it for you and then explain it .
and then i &apos;ll explain why i explain it .
so , look what happens .
the knife that you can study , my hand that you can study .
i &apos;m just going to keep the knife in my hand .
i push my sleeve back .
through the non-participation , they give up to 5,000 dollars a year to the employer who would have been happy to reproduce their contribution .
and to make sure that nothing disappears in my sleeve or comes out of it , i &apos;m just going to crush my wrist right here .
so you can see that there &apos;s nothing going on at any time , and as long as i &apos;m printing here , nothing can go into my sleeve or come out .
and the goal is very simple .
i &apos;m going to open my hand , and hopefully , if everything goes well , the knife will be held through my mere physical magnetism .
it &apos;s actually so solid in its place that i can shake it without the knife falling down .
nothing goes into my sleeve or comes out , no trickiness , and you can study everything .
ta-da !
now , this is a trick that i often teach young kids who are interested in magic , because you can learn a lot about deception when you look closer , even though it &apos;s a very simple trick .
probably many of you in this room know this trick .
and here &apos;s how it works .
paralysis is a consequence of too many choices .
i hold the knife in my hand .
i &apos;m saying that i &apos;m going to close my wrist to make sure that nothing in my sleeve disappears or comes out , and that &apos;s a lie .
the reason i &apos;m holding my wrist is because it &apos;s the real secret of illusion .
because the moment i turn my hand away from you , so you can see it from the back , this finger is moving , my index finger , just from where it was , into a position where it was so extended .
great trick ?
there &apos;s someone sitting there who didn &apos;t have childhood .
so , it &apos;s here . right .
and when i turn around , the finger changes its position .
and now you could talk about why this is a deception , why you don &apos;t realize that there are only three fingers down here , because the mind and the way it process information , doesn &apos;t count it , one , two , three , but see it as a group .
but that &apos;s really not what it &apos;s all about , and then i open my hand .
and i think it makes the world look like this .
of course , it &apos;s held there , but not by the magnetism of my body , but by a trick , by my index finger , which is now there .
and when i close my hand , the same thing happens by turning back , is hidden by this movement that the finger is moving back again .
i take this hand away . and here &apos;s the knife .
you can do this trick with your friends and neighbors . thank you .
now , what does this have to do with the placebo effect ?
a year ago or so , i read a study that really blew my mind .
i &apos;m not a doctor or a researcher , and so that was an amazing thing to me .
because it turns out that if you &apos;re offering a placebo in the form of a white pill , in the form of an aspirintablet , it &apos;s just a round , white pill that has a particular measurable effect .
but if you change the shape in which you give the placebo , for example , into a smaller pill , and then colored those blue and coined a letter on it , it &apos;s actually more effective .
and that , although none of them are pharmaceutical -- it &apos;s just sugar pills .
you really want to make the decision right if it &apos;s for all eternity , right ?
but a white pill is not as good as a blue pill .
what ? that really freaked me out .
but it turns out that this isn &apos;t all yet .
if you take capsules , they &apos;re even more effective than pills of any shape .
a colored capsule , which is yellow at one end and the other red , is better than a white capsule .
the dose also matters .
a pill twice a day is not as good as three pills -- i can &apos;t remember the exact statistics . sorry .
but the key thing is ...
... that the doses also matter .
and the shape plays a role .
they don &apos;t want to pick the wrong investment fund , or even the wrong salatdressing .
and if you want to have the ultimate placebo effect , you have to reach the needle .
right ? a syringe with an ineffective -- a few milliliters of an effective substance that you inject to a patient .
this creates a very strong picture in your head , which is much stronger than a white pill .
this graph is really -- i &apos;m going to show you another time when we have a projector .
so the fact is that the white pill doesn &apos;t work as well as the blue pill that doesn &apos;t work as well as a capsule that doesn &apos;t work as well as the needle .
and none of this has any really pharmaceutical property , and it &apos;s just our belief in what makes a stronger impact in us .
i wanted to know if i could use this idea for a magic trick .
i take something that &apos;s obviously a deception , and i make it look real .
we know from that study that you have to reach the needle when you want to do it .
this is a five-inch helicopter . it &apos;s very , very sharp , and i &apos;m going to sterilize it a little bit first .
so that &apos;s the one effect . the other effect is that even if we overcome the paralysis and make a decision , we end up less satisfied with the outcome of choice than if we had the opportunity to decide between less possibilities .
this is really my meat . it &apos;s not damians &apos; special breeding meat .
this is my skin . this is not a special effect from hollywood .
so i &apos;m going to stick this needle into my skin , and i &apos;m going to push it through , until it comes back on the other side .
if you &apos;re going to be bad -- if you &apos;re going to fall in a little bit -- i did this a couple of friends last night in the hotel room , and some people i didn &apos;t know , and a woman has become almost powerless .
so i propose , if you &apos;re going to get bad fast , look away for the next 30 seconds , or , you know , i &apos;m going to make the first hot part in the back here .
you can see it in a second , but you can also look away , if you want .
so , it goes like this , right here , where my meat starts , at the bottom of my arm , i &apos;m just going to make a little bit of a shit .
i &apos;m really sorry . does it make you crazy ?
and now just a little bit through my skin and on the other side , again , that way .
now , we &apos;re actually in the same situation that we had when we were doing the knife trick .
and there are several reasons for this .
about .
but now you can &apos;t count my fingers , right ?
so , i &apos;m going to show you . this is one , two , three , four , five .
well , yeah .
i know what people think when they see that .
they say , &quot; okay , it &apos;s not so stupid , and it &apos;s going through itself , just to give us a few minutes of entertainment . &quot;
well , then i &apos;m going to show you .
what does this look like ? pretty good .
yeah , i know .
and people in the back say , &quot; okay . i didn &apos;t really see that . &quot;
for example , take this child from the barasana in the northwest of the amazon , the people of the anakonda , believe that mythologically , they came up with the milky flow from the east in the belly of sacred snakes .
one of them is predominated by the vast selection of different salad ressings , when you buy one , and it &apos;s not perfect -- and what salatdressing is already perfect ? it &apos;s easy to imagine that you could have made a different decision that would have been better . and what happened is this artificially imagined alternative leads you to regret the decision , and this regret seems negative to the satisfaction that you made from your decision , even though it was a good decision .
people in the side rooms are now coming in .
let me show you from near .
this is really my skin . this is not a special effect from hollywood .
this is my flesh , and i can flip this around .
i &apos;m sorry . if you get bad , look away , don &apos;t look .
the people in the back or the people who will see this on the video at some point will say , &quot; well , it looks pretty impressive , but if it were real , it would -- you see , there &apos;s a hole here , and there , if it was real , it would bleed . &quot;
okay , let me squeeze a little bit of blood for you .
yes , here it is .
i would normally take the needle out now .
i would clean my arm up and show you that there are no wounds .
the more possibilities there are , the easier it is to regret nothing that is disappointing to the choice that they make .
but i think , in this frame here and in the intention of making something real out of deception , i &apos;m just going to let the needle in there and go from the stage .
we &apos;re going to meet a few more times in the next few days .
i hope you &apos;ll look forward to that . thank you very much .
everybody is talking about happiness today .
i &apos;ve let some people count the number of books that have been published in happiness in the last five years , and they gave up about 40 , and there &apos;s a lot more .
there &apos;s a tremendous wave of interest in happiness among researchers .
there &apos;s a lot of luck coaching .
everybody would like to make people happier .
but despite all this flood of work , there are several cognitive falls that make it almost impossible to think clearly about happiness .
and my talk today is mainly going to be about these cognitive falls .
secondly , what economists call oppresence costs .
this is true of layman thinking about their own happiness , and it &apos;s true of scientists thinking about happiness , because it turns out that we &apos;re just as mess as everyone else .
the first of these falls is a contradiction to admit complexity .
it turns out that the word &quot; happiness &quot; is simply not a useful word anymore , because we apply it to too many different things .
i think there &apos;s a certain meaning that we could confine it to , but by and large , that &apos;s something that we need to give up , and we &apos;re going to have to take on the complicated perspective of what &apos;s well-being .
the second trap is a confusion of experience and memory : basically , it &apos;s between being happy in his life and being happy about his life or happy with his life .
and these are two very different concepts , and they &apos;re both put together in the idea of happiness .
and the third is concentration illusion , and that &apos;s the unfortunate fact that we can &apos;t think about a circumstance that affects well-being without distorting its meaning .
i mean , this is a real cognitive trap .
there &apos;s just no way to get it right .
now i &apos;d like to start with an example of someone who had a question and answer session after one of my lectures , who reported a story . &#91; unclear &#93; , he said he had heard a symphony , and it was absolutely wonderful music , and at the very end of the recording , there was a terrible circular sound .
dan gilbert made a big point this morning by telling you how much the way we value things depends on what we compare it .
and then he added , really , quite emotionally , that has ruined the whole experience .
but it didn &apos;t .
what it ruined was the memories of the experience .
he had the experience .
he had had had 20 minutes of great music .
they didn &apos;t count because he was in love with a memory ; the memory was ruined , and the memory was all he had gotten to keep .
what that really tells us is that we could think about ourselves and other people in the sense of two kinds of self .
there &apos;s an inherent self that lives in the present and knows the present is able to reexperience the past , but essentially only has the present .
it &apos;s the inherent self that the physician attacks -- you know , when the doctor asks , &quot; does it hurt now if i file you here ? &quot;
and then there &apos;s a memory self , and the memory itself is the one that counts and sustains the history of our lives , and it &apos;s the one that the doctor is talking to by asking the question , &quot; how did you feel in the last time ? &quot;
well , if there are lots and lots of alternatives , it &apos;s easy to imagine attractive properties of alternatives that you exclude , that makes you less happy with the alternatives that you &apos;ve chosen .
or , &quot; what was your journey to albania ? &quot; or something like that .
these are two very different units , the living self and the remembering self , and the two to confuse them is part of the breakthrough of happiness .
well , the remembering self is a storyteller .
and this really starts with a fundamental reaction to our memories -- it starts right away .
we don &apos;t just tell stories when we make ourselves to tell stories .
our memory tells us stories , which means what we can keep from our experiences is a story .
and let them start with an example .
there &apos;s an old study .
these are real patients undergoing a painful procedure .
i &apos;m not going to go into the details . it &apos;s not painful now , but it was painful when this study was done in the 1990s .
here &apos;s an example . for those of you who are not new yorkers , i apologize .
they were asked to report their pain every 60 seconds .
and here are two patients . these are their records .
and they &apos;re asked , &quot; who suffered more ? &quot;
and that &apos;s a very simple question .
patient b clearly suffered more . his gut reflection was longer , and every minute of pain that patient a had , patient b , and more .
but now there &apos;s another question : &quot; how much did these patients think they were suffering ? &quot;
and here &apos;s a surprise .
and the surprise is that patient a had a much worse memory of the gut reflection than patient b had .
the stories of the gut reflections were different , and because a very important part of the story is how it ends .
and none of these stories are very building or great -- but one of them is clear .
but here &apos;s what you should have thought .
but one of them is far worse than the other .
and the one that &apos;s worse was where the pain was at the very end of its peak . it &apos;s a bad story .
how do we know that ?
because we asked these people about their gut reflection , and also much later , &quot; how bad was the whole thing ? &quot;
and she was much worse for a than for b in the memory .
well , this is a direct conflict between the living self and the remembering self .
in the view of the living self , b clearly had a worse time .
well , what you could do with patient a , and we actually did clinical experiments , and it &apos;s been done , and it works , you could actually extend the reflection of patient a by just letting the tube in it without shaking too much on it .
that &apos;s going to lead the patient to suffer , but only a little less and much less than before .
and if you do that for a few minutes , you &apos;ve made the living self of patient a is worse off , and you &apos;ve made the reminder of patient a is much better off , because now , patient a has given a better story about his experience .
here &apos;s some on the hampton .
what is a story about ?
and that &apos;s true of the stories that memory provides us , and it &apos;s also true of the stories that we invent .
and what a story is about is the breakthroughs , the major moments and the ending .
ends up being very , very important , and in this case , the end is dominated .
well , the inheritance itself lives its life continuously .
it has moments of life , one by one .
and you ask : what happens to these moments ?
and the answer is really simple . they &apos;re lost forever .
i mean , most of the moments of our lives -- and i &apos;ve calculated this -- you know , the psychological present is true for about three seconds . which means , you know , there &apos;s about 600 million of them in a life . in a month , there &apos;s about 600,000 . most of them don &apos;t leave any trace .
most of you are completely ignored by the memory itself .
very expensive real estate .
and yet , they somehow get the impression that they should count , that what happened during that moment of life is our lives .
it &apos;s the limited resource that we use while we &apos;re in this world .
and as we use it , it would seem to be important , but that &apos;s not the story that keeps the memory itself for us .
so we have the memory itself and the living self , and they &apos;re really quite different .
the biggest difference between them is the process of time .
from the point of view of the living self , if you have a vacation , and the second week is just as good as the first one , then the two-week vacation is twice as good as the one-week vacation .
so that doesn &apos;t work at all for the memory itself .
for the remembering self , a two-week vacation is hardly better than the one-week vacation , because there &apos;s no new memories added .
they haven &apos;t changed the story .
and in this way , time is actually the critical variable that distinguishes a memory self from a living self , and time has very little impact on this story .
beautiful beach . great day . you have it all for yourself .
well , the memory itself is doing more than remembering and telling stories .
it &apos;s actually the one that makes the decision , because if you have a patient who , say , had two mirrors in two different surgeons and decided which one to choose , then the one who chooses the memory is less bad , and that &apos;s the surgeon who is going to be chosen .
the living self has no voice in that election .
in fact , we don &apos;t choose between experiences . we choose between memories of experiences .
and even when we think about the future , we don &apos;t usually think of our future as experiences .
we think about our future as predicted memories .
and basically , you can look at this , you know , as a tyranny of memory itself , and you can think of the remembering self as one that kind of sucks the inheritance itself through experiences that the living itself doesn &apos;t need .
i have the impression that if we make vacation , it &apos;s very often the case , which means we make vacation largely in the service of remembering ourselves .
and that &apos;s a little hard to justify , i think .
i mean , how much do we consume from our memories ?
this is a people who are not cognitively different from the colors of blue and green , because the sky scene is the forest that people depend on .
what could be better ? &quot; damn , &quot; the man thinks , &quot; it &apos;s august .
this is one of the explanations that is given for the dominance of memory itself .
and when i think about it , i think of a vacation that we did a few years ago in antarctica , which was clearly the best vacation i &apos;ve ever had , and i think about it quite often in relation to how often i think of other vacation .
and i &apos;ve probably been eating from my memories of this three-week journey , which i would say for about 25 minutes in the last four years .
well , if i had ever opened the folder with the 600 images in it , i would have spent another hour .
well , that &apos;s three weeks , and that &apos;s at least one and a half hours .
there seems to be a disagreement .
now , i may be a little extreme , you know , in how little appetite i have on the toes of memories , but even if you make more of them , there &apos;s a real question . why do we give memories so much weight in the lost mind to the weight that we give experience ?
so i want you to think about a thought experiment .
imagine your next vacation , you know , at the end of the vacation , all your images are destroyed , and you get an amnesiac drug , so you &apos;re not going to remember anything .
now , would you choose the same vacation ?
everyone in my manhattan neighborhood is gone .
and if you were to choose another vacation , there &apos;s a conflict between your two types of self , and you have to think about how you decide this conflict , and that &apos;s really not obvious at all , because if you think about time , you get an answer , and if you think about memories , you could get a different answer .
why do we choose the vacation that we choose is a problem that we face with a choice between the two types of self .
well , the two types of self are two terms of happiness .
there are actually two concepts of happiness that we can apply , one per person .
so you can ask : how happy is the living self ?
and then you would ask : how happy are the moments in the life of the living self ?
and they &apos;re all -- happiness for moments is a pretty complicated process .
what are the emotions that can be measured ?
and , by the way , we are now able to get a pretty good idea of the happiness of the living self over time .
if you ask about the happiness of the memory itself , it &apos;s a very different thing .
i could park right in front of my house . &quot;
this is not about how happy a person lives .
it &apos;s about how happy or pleased the person is when that person thinks about their lives .
very different term .
anyone who doesn &apos;t distinguish these terms will mess up the exploration of happiness , and i &apos;m part of a lot of researchers about well-being who have long screwed up the study of happiness in the same way .
the distinction between the happiness of the living self and the satisfaction of the memory itself has been recognized in the last few years , and now you &apos;re trying to measure the two separate .
the gallup organization has a global survey , where more than half a million people have been asked questions about what they think about their lives and about their experiences , and there have been other efforts in the direction .
so in the last few years , we &apos;ve started to learn about the happiness of the two types of self .
and the main lesson that i think we &apos;ve learned is that they &apos;re really different .
you can know how happy someone is with their lives , and that really doesn &apos;t teach you much about how happy they live their lives and vice versa .
just to give you a sense of the correlation , the correlation is about .5 .
and he spends two weeks from the thought that he has missed the opportunity to have a great parking lot every day .
what that means is that if you were to meet someone , and you would tell them , oh , his father is a two-meter man , how much would you know about his size ?
well , you would know something about its size , but there &apos;s a lot of uncertainty .
they have so much uncertainty .
if i tell you that someone has put their lives as eight on a scale of 10 , they have a lot of uncertainty about how happy they are with their own living selves .
so the correlation is small .
we know something about what determines the happiness of the happiness itself .
we know that money is very important , goals are very important .
we know that happiness is mainly about being satisfied with people we like to spend time with people we like .
there are other pleasures , but that &apos;s dominant .
so if you want to maximize the happiness of the two types of self , you will end up doing very different things .
optune costs reduce the happiness that we get from our choice , even though what we &apos;ve chosen is fantastic .
the conclusion from what i &apos;ve said here is that we really shouldn &apos;t imagine happiness as a replacement for well-being .
it &apos;s a completely different term .
well , very briefly , another reason that we can &apos;t think about happiness clearly is that we don &apos;t pay attention to the same things when we think about life , and when we actually live .
so if you ask the simple question of how happy people in california are , you &apos;re not going to get the correct answer .
if you ask that question , you think that people in california have to be happier if you , say , live in ohio .
and what happens is that when you think about life in california , you think about the difference between california and other places , and that difference is , say , in the climate .
well , it turns out that climate isn &apos;t very important for the living self , and it &apos;s not even very important for the thoughtful self that decides how happy people are .
but now , because the thoughtful self is responsible , you can end up -- some people could end up going to california .
and it &apos;s kind of interesting to pursue what happens to people who move to california in the hope of getting happier .
well , her heritage self is not going to be happier .
and the more options there are to choice , the more attractive features of that choice are considered in the opera cost .
we know that .
but one thing will happen . you &apos;ll think you &apos;re happier , because if you think about it , you &apos;ll be reminded of how awful the weather was in ohio , and you &apos;ll feel that you &apos;ve made the right decision .
it &apos;s very difficult to think clearly about well-being , and i hope i &apos;ve given you a sense of how difficult it is .
thank you .
thank you . i have a question for you .
thank you .
now , when we were phone a couple of weeks ago , they were mentioning to me that there was a pretty interesting result that came out of this gallup poll .
is that something that you can let us participate in , because now you have a few minutes left ?
daniel kahneman : sure .
i think the most interesting thing that we found in the gallup poll is a number that we absolutely didn &apos;t expect to find .
here &apos;s another example .
we found that in terms of the happiness of the living self .
when we looked at how feelings varied with income .
and it turns out that , under a 60,000 dollars a year &apos;s income , for americans , and that &apos;s a very large sample of americans , about 600,000 , but it &apos;s a big representative sample , under a 600,000 dollars a year &apos;s income of 600,000 dollars a year .
60,000 .
dk : 60,000 .
60,000 dollars a year , people are unhappy , and they &apos;re getting more and less happy as they get poorer .
we get an absolutely flat line about that .
i mean , i rarely saw flat lines .
what happens is , obviously , money doesn &apos;t raise you an experience of happiness , but that lack of money certainly gets you miserable , and we can measure that misery very , very clearly .
in the sense of the other self , the memory itself , you get a different story .
well , this cartoon makes some statements .
the more money you make , the more happy you are .
that &apos;s not true of emotions .
but danny , in the entire american effort , is about life , freedom , the pursuit of happiness .
if people were to take this fund seriously , i mean , it seems to turn everything on its head , everything we think , for example , in terms of tax policy and so on .
is there a chance that politicians that the country would generally take a fund like the seriousness and make it based on politics ?
dk : you know , i think there &apos;s recognition for the role of the study of happiness in politics .
the recognition will be slow in the united states , no question , but in the united kingdom , it &apos;s happening right now , and in other countries it &apos;s happening right now .
people are in the process of recognizing that they should think about happiness when they think about politics .
it &apos;s going to take a while , and people are going to discuss whether they want to explore experience happiness or whether they want to explore life grades , so we have to have this discussion pretty soon .
how to increase happiness is very different depending on how you think , and whether you think of the memory itself , or whether you think of the inheritance itself .
he makes a statement about living in the now , and maybe doing things slowly .
that &apos;s going to affect politics , i think , in the years ahead .
in the united states , you &apos;re struggling to measure the experience of people &apos;s happiness .
this will , i think , be part of the national statistics in the next decade or two .
well , it seems to me that this topic is going to be , or at least the most interesting political debate for being tracked over the next few years .
thank you very much for the invention of behavioral economics .
thank you , danny kahneman .
i &apos;m jane mcgonigal . i &apos;m designing computer games .
i &apos;ve been developing online games for 10 years now , and my goal for the next decade is to make it as easy to save the world in reality as to save it in online games .
i have a plan for that . i want to convince you more people , including all of you , to spend more time playing bigger and great games .
we &apos;re now spending three billion hours a week playing online .
but one important point that he does is always who you decide for one thing , don &apos;t decide to do other things .
some of you might think , &quot; that &apos;s a lot of time for games . &quot;
maybe a little too much time when you think about how many problems we have to solve in the real world .
but in fact , according to my research at the institute for the future , it &apos;s exactly the opposite .
three billion hours a week is not nearly enough to solve the world &apos;s most urgent problems .
in fact , i &apos;m convinced that if we want to survive the next century on this planet , we need to increase that time dramatically .
i &apos;ve calculated that it takes time at 21 billion hours of play a week .
this may seem a little bit abundant , so i repeat it so that it can work : if we want to solve problems like hunger , poverty , climate change , global conflicts and obesity , i think we need to try to play games online for at least 21 billion hours a week to the end of the next decade .
no , i mean it really seriously .
why ? this picture pretty much describes why i think games are so critical to the survival of the human species in the future . seriously .
this is a portrait of the photographer phil toledano .
they have a strange language and a marriage rule called the linguistic exogamy : you have to marry someone who speaks a different language .
and these other things may have a lot of attractive properties , and it will make what they do less attractive .
he wanted to capture the feelings when he was playing , so he built a camera in front of the players .
this is one of the classic expressions of play .
if you &apos;re not a player , you might have some of the nuances in this picture .
you probably see this sense of urgency , a little bit of fear , but also external concentration , very deep into solving a really difficult problem .
if you &apos;re also playing , you see some nuances here , the eyes zoomed up , and the mouth is a sign of optimism , and the eyebrows are surprising .
this is a player standing on the edge of a so-called epic victory .
oh , you know that . ok . so we have some players here .
an epic victory is a result that is so overwhelmingly positive that they didn &apos;t even know that it was possible at all .
it was almost beyond the imagination .
and when they get there , they &apos;re shocked that they &apos;re actually capable of something like this . this is an epic victory .
third , escalation of expectations .
this player is on the verge of an epic victory .
and this is what we need to see on millions of faces of problem-solving around the world when we take on the barriers of the next century , the face of those who are on the edge of an epic victory .
well , unfortunately , we tend to see this face in real life when we face difficult problems .
i call it the &quot; i &apos;m bad face &quot; in life . and it &apos;s actually my face , you see ? yes ? ok .
this is me doing the &quot; in life i &apos;m bad &quot; face .
this is a graffiti in my former home in berkeley , california , where i studied in my ph.d. , why we &apos;re better at play than in real life .
that &apos;s a problem that many players have .
we think we &apos;re not as good in reality as we are in games .
and i don &apos;t just mean less successfully , even though that &apos;s true .
we get more in play worlds . i mean well , in the context of motivation to do something significant , inspired to collaborate with each other .
this struck me when i wanted to exchange my jeans .
when we &apos;re in a game world , i think many of us are turning into our best version , anytime and immediately helpful , to try to solve the problem , as long as it takes , to try again after the failure .
and in reality , when we fail , when we hit obstacles , we often feel different .
we feel overwhelmed . we feel defeated . we feel threatened , maybe depressed , frustrated or cynical .
we never have these feelings when we play games , they just don &apos;t exist .
and that &apos;s what i wanted to study as a ph.d. student .
why is it impossible to think in games , you couldn &apos;t just do everything ?
how can we transmit these feelings from the games into reality ?
so i looked at games like the world of warcraft , which gives the ideal environment to the collaborative problem solving .
and i &apos;ve found some things that make epic victories so possible in online worlds .
so , first of all , when you get in one of these online games , especially in the world of warcraft , there are a lot of different characters who are willing to trust you a world-class mission , and that &apos;s right away .
i &apos;m wearing jeans , almost all the time .
but not just any mission , but a mission that fits perfectly to your current level in the game , right ?
so they can do that .
they never get a task that they can &apos;t do .
but always on the edge of their skills , so they have to do a lot of work , but there &apos;s no unemployment in the world of warcraft .
you don &apos;t sit around and turn around . there &apos;s always something important to do .
and there are some collaborators .
wherever they go , hundreds of thousands of people working with them to finish their epic mission .
we don &apos;t have that easy in real life , that feeling that if you &apos;re a finger snippet , you &apos;re ready to get there .
and also , there &apos;s this epic story , this inspiring story of why we are there and what we have to do .
then we get all this positive feedback .
and there was a time when there was only jeans of a species , and they bought it , and they missed it , they were incredibly uncomfortable , and if they were wearing it long enough and washing it often enough , they started to feel ok .
you &apos;ve heard about &quot; level up &quot; and &quot; + 1 strength &quot; or &quot; + 1 intelligence . &quot;
this constant feedback doesn &apos;t exist in real life .
when i leave this stage , i don &apos;t have plus-one talks and + 1 crazy idea , + 20 crazy idea .
i don &apos;t get that feedback in the real life .
so , the problem of cooperative online worlds like world of warcraft is that it &apos;s so satisfying to stand on the edge of an epic victory at any time , that we prefer to spend all our time in these worlds .
they &apos;re just better than reality .
so far , all the world of warcrafers , together , have spent 5.93 million years solving the virtual problems of azeroth .
that &apos;s not necessarily bad .
it may sound bad .
but to put it in context , 5.93 million years ago , our first primate ancestors started to go upright .
so to buy new jeans after many years of the wearing of the old , and i said , &quot; i &apos;d like to have some jeans , here &apos;s my size . &quot;
so the first exciting primate .
ok , so when we talk about how much time we spend playing right now , it just makes sense when we think about the time in terms of the scale of human development , which is extraordinary .
but also , it turns out , because it turns out that by using all this time to play , we &apos;re actually changing what we &apos;re capable of as people .
we &apos;re developing into collaborative thinking , heartfelt beings .
that &apos;s the truth . that &apos;s what i believe .
if you look at this interesting statistic that was recently published by a researcher at carnegie mellon university , the average young person from today in a country with strong play culture spends 10,000 hours playing online to the 21st year .
so , 10,000 hours is a very interesting number for two reasons .
first of all , for kids in the united states , 10,080 hours is the accurate total that they spend in school , from the fifth grade to the end of high school -- if you never miss .
so here we have a complete parallel education where young people learn what it means to be a good player , like anything else they learn in school .
and maybe some of you have read the new book by malcolm gladwell , &quot; flying over . &quot;
and the seller said , &quot; do you want snake , slightly lying , or wide ?
so you know his theory of success , the theory of the success of 10,000 hours .
it &apos;s based on the great research of cognitive science that if we spend 10,000 hours studying any subject until the 21st year , we will master it .
we &apos;re getting so good at doing whatever the most important people in the world .
so what we have here is a whole generation of young people who are master-players .
so the big question is , &quot; what are the players that are masterly good at ? &quot;
because if we could figure that out , we would have kind of unprecedented human potential .
so many people have now in the world who spend at least an hour a day playing online games .
these are our master-players . 500 million people who are extraordinarily good at something .
and in the next decade , we have another billion players who are extraordinarily good at whatever .
if you haven &apos;t heard it yet .
do you want buttons or cups ? stone or acid wash ?
the game industry develops consoles that save energy and work on mobile networks , rather than the broadband internet , so that players around the world , especially in india , china , brazil , can play online .
you expect an extra billion players in the next decade .
so we have a billion and a half players .
so i started thinking about what it is that these games make us master .
here are the four things i found . first of all , urgency optimism .
ok , think of it as being extremely self-motivated .
urgency optimism is the desire to do something immediately , to master a hurdle , along with the belief that we have a founded hope for success .
players always believe that an epic victory is possible , and it &apos;s always worth trying to do it in the same way .
players don &apos;t sit around .
players are masters of social nets in spiders .
do you want jeans with holes ?
there &apos;s a lot of interesting studies that show that we like people more after we &apos;ve played with them , even if they &apos;ve defeated us .
the reason for that is that it requires a lot of trust to play with someone .
we trust that someone spends time with us , that the rules are held , that we have the same goal , and we stay with the game .
so the interplay enables the growth of ties , trust and each other .
as a result , we &apos;re building stronger social relationships .
happy productivity . fantastic !
you know , there &apos;s a reason why the average word of warcraftsmen is playing 22 hours a week , so to speak , as a part-time job .
the reason is , when we play , we &apos;re actually happier at working hard than when we relax or do nothing .
we know that we work as human beings optimally when we do hard , meaningful work .
and players are always ready to work hard when they get the right job .
do you want to cut far down , cookie , blah , blah , blah ... &quot; and so on , he said .
and finally , epic meaning .
players love to be part of the awe of planetary extent missions .
here &apos;s a backbone formation to bring that to the right light , and you know all wikipedia , the largest wiki in the world .
the second largest wiki in the world , with almost 80,000 entries , is the world of warcraft wiki .
five million people use it every month .
they &apos;ve put more information together on the world of warcraft on the internet than on any other topic in every other wiki in the world .
they create an epic story .
they create an epic source of knowledge about the world of warcraft .
ok , so these are four superpowers that lead to a single result . players are super-powerful , hopeful individuals .
it &apos;s people who believe that they can change the world as an individual .
all of this is rooted in the mythological past , and the strange thing about these big houses , which are spoken about six or seven languages , but the fact is that you never hear somebody who learns a language .
my jaw was down , and after i recovered , i said , &quot; i &apos;d like to have the species that used to be the only species . &quot;
and the only problem is that you think you can change the virtual worlds , but not the real world .
that &apos;s the problem i &apos;m trying to solve .
edward castronova is a economist .
his work is brilliant . he studies why people spend so much time , energy and money in online worlds .
and he says , &quot; we will witness no less than a mass migration in virtual worlds and online play environments . &quot;
and this is from an economist . so he &apos;s logical .
and he says ...
not like me -- i &apos;m developing games , i &apos;m a little bit overwhelming .
so he says that actually makes sense , because players can achieve more in online worlds than in real life .
they can make play more powerful social ties than they do in real life . they get more feedback and reward in games than they do in real life .
he had no idea what that was , so i spent an hour trying to do all these damn jeans , and i left the business -- and i say the truth -- with the best passenger of jeans i &apos;ve ever had .
so , he says it &apos;s totally logical right now that players spend more time in the virtual world than in the real world .
i &apos;ll just agree , that &apos;s logical .
but it &apos;s definitely not an optimal situation .
we need to start turning the real world into a game .
my inspiration comes from an event that goes back 2,500 years .
there are these ancient cubes , out of sheep boxes . you know ?
before these fantastic game controllers , there were sheep cords .
and these were the first human beings to be developed toys .
and if you &apos;re familiar with the work of the ancient greek historian herodotus , you may know this story , the story of how and why games were invented .
herodotus was invented games , precise cube games , in the kingdom of lydia during famine .
i had better . all this choice allowed me to have better .
there was such a great famine that the king of lydia decided to be a crazy idea .
people suffered . people fought .
it was an extreme situation . you needed an extreme solution .
so they invented , according to herodotus , the cube game , and they agreed a national strategy , and one day you would eat , and the next day you would play .
and they would be so deeply immersed in the cube game , because games are so fascinating and surround us with satisfying , happy productivity , that they would forget that there was nothing to eat .
and then the next day you would play , and the next day you would eat .
and according to herodotus , they survived this famine for 18 years eating one day and playing the next day .
likewise , i think we &apos;re going to use games today .
we use games to escape the suffering of the real world .
we use games to get out of everything that doesn &apos;t work in the real world , everything that &apos;s not satisfying in real life , and we get what we need from the games .
but i felt worse .
but that doesn &apos;t have to be the end .
that &apos;s the exciting thing .
according to herodotus , after 18 years , the famine didn &apos;t get better , so the king decided to do a final cube game .
they divided the kingdom into two halves .
they played a cube game , and the winners were allowed to break up to an epic adventure .
they left lydies , and they went looking for a new home , and they just left as many people as there was food to survive , and they were looking for the rest of an area where they could thrive .
that sounds crazy , right ?
but the latest dna evidence shows that the etruskers who later formed the roman empire have the same dna as the old lydians .
so scientists recently came to the notion that herodotus &apos; crazy story is actually true .
and geologists found evidence of a global cooling that took almost 20 years to explain what famine might explain .
why ? i wrote a whole book to try to explain it to myself .
so this crazy story could be true .
you may actually have saved your people by playing through games for 18 years , whispering into games , and then learning so much about the interplay that they have saved the entire civilization .
so , we can do that .
we &apos;ve been playing warcraft since 1994 .
this was the first strategy game in real time in the world of warcrafts series . this was 16 years ago .
they were playing cube games for 18 years , we &apos;ve been playing warcraft for 16 years .
i &apos;m saying we &apos;re ready for our own epic game .
so , they sent half of their civilization to search for a new world , so i take my 21 billion game hours a week .
we should be able to think that half of us spend an hour a day playing until we &apos;ve solved the problems of the real world .
i know you &apos;re going to ask , &quot; how do we solve problems in the real world in games ? &quot; and that &apos;s exactly the question that i &apos;ve dedicated my work to the future in the last few years .
the reason i felt worse was because of all these available possibilities , my expectations for what a good couple of jeans were doing , went up .
we have this banner in our office in palo alto , and it expresses how we should understand the future .
we don &apos;t want to try to say the future before .
what we want is to create the future .
we want to think of the best possible outcome , and then empower people to get this idea into reality .
we imagine epic victories , and we give people the opportunity to reach them .
i &apos;m going to show you three very briefly games that i designed to try to give people epic victories in their own future .
this is &quot; world without oil . &quot;
the game is from 2007 .
it &apos;s an online game where you have to overcome an oil scarcity .
i had very low expectations . i had no concrete expectations when they were only in a way .
we &apos;ve tested this game with 1,700 players in 2007 , and we &apos;ve been with it since over the last three years .
and i can tell you , it was a transformative experience .
nobody wants to change their lives because it &apos;s good for the environment , or because we should .
but when they &apos;re in an epic adventure and they say , &quot; we &apos;re running out of oil . &quot;
this is a fascinating adventure to go to .
figure out how to survive . most of our players have kept the habits in the game .
so for the next world &apos;s game , we have a bigger , higher goal than just oil scarcity .
we &apos;ve developed the game &quot; superstruct &quot; at the institute for the future .
the starting point is to calculate a supercomputer that people only have 23 years on the planet .
this supercomputer is called &quot; global mortality sensitivity system , &quot; of course .
when they came in 100 species , damn , one of them should have been perfect .
the call to players to sign up , we &apos;ve almost created a &quot; jerry bruckheimer &quot; movie .
you know jerry bruckheimer movies , where there &apos;s the &quot; dream-team , &quot; they have the astronauts , the scientists , the ex-strings , and only together , they can save the world .
but in our game , instead of just five people , let &apos;s say everybody is on the dream-team , and it &apos;s our job to create the future for energy , food , health , security and the future of social justice .
8,000 players played the game for eight weeks .
they found 500 incredibly creative solutions that they can read when they google &quot; superstruct . &quot;
and the last game we bring out on march three , and it &apos;s a game in collaboration with the world bank .
when you finish the game , you get the award from the world bank , &quot; social transformation , &quot; graduated in 2010 .
we work with universities all over sub-saharan africa , and we invite them to learn social redesign .
we have a comic book on it . we have &quot; level up &quot; for local understanding , knowledge , sustainability , vision and ingenuity .
i want to invite you all to share this game with young people all over the world , especially in developing areas that benefit from imagining their own social enterprises to save the world .
and what i got was good , but it wasn &apos;t perfect .
i &apos;m going to end now .
i want to ask you something .
what do you think happens next ?
we have all these fantastic players , we have games that show us what we can do , but we haven &apos;t saved the real world yet .
well , i hope you &apos;ll agree that players are human resources that we can use to work in real life , and that games have a great meaning for change .
we have all these superpowers , happy productivity , the ability to make close social nets , urgency optimism and the desire for epic meaning .
i really hope that we play important games together to survive another century on this planet .
and i hope you &apos;ll play and play with me like this .
when i look forward in the next decade , i &apos;m sure in two things : that we can create any imaginable future , and that we can play all kinds of games .
so i say , let &apos;s start the world &apos;s changing games !
and so i compared what i had gotten to what i expected , and what i had was disappointing compared to what i expected .
thank you .
i &apos;d like to tell you something that i noticed a few months ago in writing an article for italian wired .
i used to do my synonymous dictionary on writing , but i was ready to work on the text , and i noticed that i &apos;ve never looked up in my life , which really means &quot; disabled . &quot;
i &apos;ll read you the entry .
&quot; disabled , &quot; adjectively : &quot; curved , helpless , useless , destroyed , deceased , mutilated , wounded , defeated , layered , separated trusted , balanced , impotent , casted , paralyzed , paralyzed , pradicapt senil , age weak , pulled out of traffic , refined , broken , counted , injured , injured , useless and weak .
antonyme : healthy , strong , powerful . &quot;
i read this list to a friend loud , and i had to laugh , and it was so ridiculous , but i just came up to &quot; oriented , &quot; and i couldn &apos;t talk further , and i had to stop reading , and collect me first after this flooding word , and the interconnected emotional shock .
of course , this was an out-of-the-box , old synonymous dictionary , and i just thought that the issue must be pretty old .
but in fact , it was an issue in the early &apos; 80s , when i was just starting elementary school and starting to build and form my self-image outside my family environment , also in terms of other children and the rest of the world around me .
and thank god , i didn &apos;t use a synonymous dictionary at the time .
you just listen , and then you start talking .
adding possibilities to people &apos;s lives is inevitably increasing the expectations that people have about how good these possibilities will be .
if i were to take this mission seriously , i would be born into a world that someone like me would perceive as a person whose life can &apos;t be positive in any way , but today i will celebrate the opportunity and adventure that i &apos;ve experienced .
so i immediately called up the online copy of 2009 , and i expected to find a more promising contribution here .
here &apos;s the updated version of this entry .
unfortunately , it &apos;s not much better .
and i &apos;m particularly struck by the last two words under near antonyms , &quot; all &quot; and &quot; healthy . &quot;
but it &apos;s not just about the words .
it &apos;s about what we think about the people we describe with these words .
it &apos;s about the values that are in these words , and how we construct these values .
our language affects our thinking and how we see the world and the people around us .
a lot of ancient societies , including the greeks and the roman , have really believed that the language of an escape has a great force because what you &apos;re talking out loud can manifest itself .
and this leads to less happiness with the results , even though the results are good .
so , what do we really want to manifest -- a disabled person or a powerful person ?
just to mention a human being mindlessly as a child , could be enough to restrict them and to overcome ideas .
wouldn &apos;t it be more beautiful to open your doors ?
a man who opened doors for me was my pediatrician at a.i. dupont institute in wilmington in delaware .
it &apos;s called dr. pizzutillo , a italo american whose name , as you can imagine , most americans couldn &apos;t speak correctly , so he &apos;s always called dr. p.
and dr. p. always wore very colorful flies and was just created for work with kids .
i found the time i spent in this hospital , just great -- except for my physiotherapy .
i had to have individual practices , seemingly , repeat infinitely with these thick , elastic bands -- in different colors -- you know , to build my leg muscles , and i hated these tapes more than anything else . i hated them . i flooded them . i hated them .
and imagine , in fact , i &apos;ve negotiated with dr. p. as a five-year-old child , trying to stop these practices , naturally without success .
and one day , he observed me in one of my practices -- these practices were just tiring and graceless -- and he said to me , &quot; wow , aimee , you &apos;re such a strong , powerful and young girl , you &apos;re going to tear one day to one of these bands .
nobody in the world of marketing knows this , because if you did , you would all know what this is about .
and if you can do it , i &apos;ll give you a hundred dollars . &quot;
and of course , this was just a simple trick by dr. p. , so that i would do the practices that i didn &apos;t want to do with the idea that the richest five-year-old girl in the hospital in the second floor , but he actually got me to see my daily practice horror with new eyes , so it became a new and promising experience .
and i wonder today how much his vision of me as a strong and powerful young girl shaped my self-image , and i could imagine myself as one of nature of strong , powerful and atlethal human beings .
this is just one example of how adults in power positions can inspire the imagination of a child .
but as the already quoted examples from the synonymous dictionaries , our language doesn &apos;t allow us to imagine something that we would all wish : to enable each and every one of us to think of themselves as powerful people .
our language is about the social change that has been caused by a technological change in many cases .
from the medical point of view , you can say , of course , my legs , the laser surgery for visually impaired , knee joints of titan and artificial hip joints for aging bodies that allow people to really use all of their possibilities and develop across the borders that their natural destiny has given them , not to speak of social networking platforms , give people a different identity , define themselves in a way , and therefore orient themselves to groups around the world that they choose themselves .
so maybe this technological change is clear , because the fact that there has always been a different truth , which is that every human being in society can be something very special and very powerful , and that the human ability to adapt is our biggest plus .
the human ability to adapt -- this is an interesting story , because people are always asking me to tell the story of how i deal with adversity , and i &apos;m going to tell you something : this sentence has never adapted to me , and i &apos;ve always felt very uncomfortable with answering the questions of people , and i think , gradually , i understand why .
this phrase from dealing with adversity lives on the idea that success or happiness depends on having a challenge , without being coined by the interconnected experience , as if my life had been so successful , because i could extend the possible fall of a life with a prosthetic , or whatever people perceive me with my disability .
the truth is more like this .
but the truth is that we change . of course , we &apos;re shaped by the challenge , whether it &apos;s physical , emotional or even both .
and i &apos;m saying that &apos;s good .
and the key is not a obstacle that we need to curve in order to deal with our lives better .
widows are just part of our lives .
and i tend to see adversity as my shadow .
sometimes i realize that he &apos;s very present , sometimes he &apos;s hardly seen , but he &apos;s constantly with me .
and i don &apos;t want to make the impact , or the severe of the fight of a human being .
there are functions and challenges in life , and they &apos;re just too real , and every person is going to do it differently , but the question is not whether we deal with adversity or not , but how we deal with it .
so not only are we responsible for preserving the people we love from fate salts , but also to prepare them for doing well with it .
and we don &apos;t like our children if we give them the feeling that they can &apos;t adapt .
the reason is that it used to be better than anything was worse than anything was worse , it was possible for people to have experiences that were a pleasant surprise .
you have to separate two things : for one thing , the medical fact of being amputated and for the other , the social opinion of whether i &apos;m disabled or not .
and to be honest , the only real and persistent disability that i had to deal with is that the world always means that it can describe me with these definitions .
in our desire to protect the people that we care about and to tell them the cold , hard truth about their medical prediction , or even to give them a forecast for quality of life that they expect , we have to pay attention to the fact that we don &apos;t have the basis of someone being disabled .
maybe the current concept , which is just paying attention to what &apos;s in a broken , and how we fix this , for every single person , is a greater disability than the pathology itself .
if we don &apos;t treat a human being wholly , and we don &apos;t perceive all of its forces and possibilities , we also create , in addition to the natural struggle that you might need to lead , another disease .
we degrade a person who has value for our society .
so we have to look beyond the patology and focus on all sorts of human possibilities .
but most importantly , between the perception of our inadequacy and our great inventive mind , there is a connection .
we should not devalue or deny these challenging times , we should not try to avoid them , nor should we turn them under the carpet , but it &apos;s about recognizing opportunities in the widows .
i think i &apos;m more likely to make it clear that we don &apos;t necessarily have to overcome adversity , but that we &apos;re open to embracing it for the hug , to grab it on the snap , to also use a fight expression , and maybe even dance with it .
today , in the world that we live in -- we &apos;re wealthy , industrialized citizens , with perfection as an expectation -- the best thing to ever hope for is that things are as good as you expect them .
and maybe we &apos;re able to see vitality as something natural , coherent and useful , and we don &apos;t feel like we &apos;re so upset by their presence .
this year , we celebrate the 200th anniversary of charles darwin , and when he wrote about evolution 150 years ago , darwin , in my eyes , pointed out something very true in the human character .
i would rewrite it this way : not the most powerful of its kind survives , and not the most intelligent of its kind , but the one that can best adapt to change .
conflict comes out of conflict .
not only from darwin &apos;s work do we know that man &apos;s ability to survive and flourish is determined by the fight of the human mind to change through conflict .
so , again , change and adaptation are the greatest skills of man .
and maybe we don &apos;t know what wood we &apos;re made of when we &apos;re really tested .
maybe that &apos;s exactly what the sense of adversity , of perception of the iche , is a sense of our own power .
we can give ourselves something like this .
we can give inferences a new meaning that goes beyond severe times .
you &apos;ll never be surprised , because your expectations , my expectations , are house high .
maybe we can think of wishes as a change .
it &apos;s a change that we haven &apos;t adapted to yet .
i think the biggest damage we &apos;ve done to ourselves is to believe that we should be normal .
let &apos;s face it -- who &apos;s normal ?
there &apos;s no normal .
there &apos;s the usual one . the typical one , but not the normal one , and would you really want to get to know this poor , gray person if you really had it ?
i don &apos;t think so .
it would be great if we could exchange this paradigm of normality against another set of possibilities or strength to even form it a little bit more dangerous , so we can release the forces of very many children , and invite them to bring their special and valuable skills into society .
anthropolar has found that we &apos;ve always asked people from the members of our society to be useful and to contribute .
there &apos;s evidence that , already , the neanderthals , 60,000 years ago , were carrying older people and people with severe physical injuries , and that might happen because the life experience of these people was valuable for society .
the secret to happiness -- that &apos;s what you &apos;ve all come to -- the secret to happiness is low expectations .
they didn &apos;t think of these people as broken and useless ; they were treated as something special and valuable .
a few years ago , i went to the city that i grew up in , and i went to a food market in this red zone in the northeast of pennsylvania , and i was standing there in front of a scheffel tomato .
it was summer , and i had shorts on .
and i hear a guy behind me say , &quot; well , if that &apos;s not aimee mullins . &quot;
and i turn around and i see this older man . i had no idea who he is .
and i said , &quot; excuse me , sir , we know ourselves ? i can &apos;t remember you . &quot;
and he said , &quot; well , you can &apos;t remember me .
when i first saw her , i got her out of her mother &apos;s belly . &quot;
oh , so that one .
and of course , it did click .
i want to say -- a short autobiographical moment -- that i &apos;m married to a woman , and she &apos;s really wonderful .
this was dr. kean , a man that i only knew from the narratives of my mother that day , because , of course , i was very typical , to my birthday , two weeks late .
my mother &apos;s prenatal diagnostic doctor was on vacation , and so my parents knew the man who got me to the world at all .
and because i was born with no legs , and my feet were looking for them , and i only had a few toes on this one and a few toes on the other foot , he was the transfer , and this stranger had to overcome the bad news .
he said to me , &quot; i had to tell your parents that you would never walk , and you would never be as moving as other kids , or you could never lead an independent life , and since then they just punished me . &quot;
i found really extraordinary that he had collected newspaper clips of all of my childhood , whether i had won in a spelling competition in the second grade , whether i was on the way to halloan parade with the pediatricians , whether i had my scholarship or one of my sports victories , and he was using these clips to teach his students , medical students from hahnemann medical school and hershey medical school .
and he called this part of his class the x factor , the potential of the human will .
you can &apos;t emphasize just enough how important this factor can be to the quality of a human life .
and dr. kean kept telling me , he said , &quot; i &apos;ve learned that kids , if they don &apos;t get something else all the time , and even if they get a little bit of support , if you leave kids on their own , then children can achieve a lot . &quot;
you see , dr. kean changed his thinking .
he had understood that the medical diagnosis , and how someone was dealing with it , are two different things .
i couldn &apos;t have done better . i didn &apos;t let myself down .
and i also changed my thinking over time , if you had asked me at the age of 15 if i had swapped my prosthetic legs for meat and bones , i wouldn &apos;t have delayed for a second .
i really wanted to be normal at the time .
if you ask me that today , i &apos;m not so sure .
and that &apos;s because i &apos;ve experienced something with my legs , and not despite those experiences .
and maybe that change could happen too , because i &apos;ve encountered so many people who have opened up doors , rather than meeting people who wanted to constrain me or give me an idea .
you see , it really only takes one person to demonstrate to you how to manifest their forces , and they &apos;re through .
if you allow someone to activate their own internal forces -- the human mind is so recommended -- if they can do that , and if they open a door for someone in a critical moment , they &apos;re a very good teacher for these people .
they teach them to open up their doors .
the real meaning of the word &quot; educate &quot; is rooted in the word &quot; educe . &quot;
it means to emphasize something that is in one place to tickle out the potential .
or , one of the most intriguing tribes i &apos;ve ever lived with , the waorani in the northeast of ecuador , an amazing people , which was peaceful for the first time in 1958 .
but leaving is not always such a bad thing .
again , what potential do we want to call out ?
in the &apos; 60s , a case study was done in britain , and then gymnasia was transformed into a whole school at the time .
they call this &quot; streaming trials &quot; there in the united states , we call it &quot; tracking . &quot;
the students are divided after grades .
and the a students get tested tirelessly , get the better teachers and so on .
they then , over a three-month period of time , they gave students a &quot; sufficient &quot; the note very well , &quot; and they were told they were street , they were very smart , and after these three months , they really wrote one more .
and of course , it &apos;s breaking your heart to hear that , in reverse , the students were told they were just sufficient .
and it was also the same after the three months .
but only those who were still in school -- besides the students who had missed the school .
and the crucial thing about this study was that the teachers weren &apos;t instructed .
finally , a consequence of buying a bad sitting jeans , if there &apos;s only one way to buy it , is that if you &apos;re unsatisfied , and you wonder why , who &apos;s responsible , the answer is clear . the world is responsible . what could you have done ?
the teachers didn &apos;t know that something was changed .
they were just told that they were the student , and they were the students with the note , and they were teaching them something and they were treating them .
the only real disability is a broken mind that has no longer been broken , no longer hope . he &apos;s not finding anything beautiful . he &apos;s missing our natural , child-friendly curiosity , and our innate ability of imagination .
but if we can continue to support the human spirit , to continue to hope for ourselves and other people around us to be beautiful , curious and imaginative , then we really empower our forces .
when a mind has these qualities , we can create a new reality and new forms of existence .
i want to end with a poem that was written by a persian poet called hafiz in the 14th century , and that my friend jacques dembois told me about . and the poem is called , &quot; the god who only knows four words . &quot; &quot; every child knows god , not the god of the name , not the god of the publisher , but the god who knows only four words , and repeatedly , he always says , &quot; come , dance with me . &quot;
come on , dance with me . thank you .
how would you want to be better than you are right now ?
suppose that through a few changes in your genes , i said that you could have a better memory -- more precise , more precise and faster .
or do you want to be more fitter , more powerful , more powerful .
if hundreds of different kinds of jeans are available , and they buy one that &apos;s disappointing , and they ask why , who is responsible ?
do you want to become more attractive and confident ?
how about living longer in good health ?
or maybe you &apos;re one of those who has been longing for more creativity .
which one would you like the most ?
which one would you like to have if it could only have one ?
creativity .
how many people would choose creativity ?
raise your hands . let me see .
a few . probably about as many as there are creative people here .
that &apos;s very good .
it &apos;s also clear that the answer to the question is : it is .
how many would make a decision for a good memory ?
a few more .
how about fitness ?
a few less .
what about longevity ?
ah , the majority . i like to see that as a doctor .
if you could only have one of them , it would be a very different world .
is this all just education ?
or maybe it &apos;s possible ?
evolution has been a continuous topic here at the ted conference , but today i want to give you the perspective of a doctor on the subject .
they could have done better .
the great geneticist in the 20th century , t.g. dobzhansky , who was also a communicator in the russian orthodox church , once wrote a paper called &quot; nothing in biology doesn &apos;t make sense except in the light of evolution . &quot;
now , if you &apos;re one of those who doesn &apos;t accept the proof of biological evolution , this would be a very good time to turn off your listening device , take your personal communications device -- i &apos;ll give you the permission -- and maybe you can take a look at kathryn schultz &apos;s book , which is why you &apos;re wrong , because there &apos;s nothing in the course of this talk that will make any sense of you .
but if you accept biological evolution , consider this : is it just about the past , or is it about the future ?
is it serving for others , or is it affecting us ?
this is another view of the tree of life .
in this picture , i &apos;ve laid a bush as a center of despair in all directions , because if you look at the edges of the tree of life , all the existing species at the top of those branches have succeeded in evolutionary terms , they have survived ; it has demonstrated its environment fitness and strength .
the human part of this book , far at the end , is , of course , what we &apos;re most interested in .
we branch from a common ancestor to modern chimpanzees about six or eight million years ago .
in this period of time , there were maybe 20 or 25 different species of hominids .
some have come and gone .
with 100 different kinds of jeans in the window , there &apos;s no excuse for mistakes .
we &apos;ve been here for about 130,000 years .
it seems like we &apos;re quite remote from the other parts of the tree of life , but in fact , most of the time , the basic mechanisms that we have are quite the same to our cells .
do you realize that we can take advantage of this and challenge the mechanisms of a common bacteria to produce the protein of the human insulin , which is used to treat diabetics ?
this is not like humaninsulin ; this is the same protein that &apos;s chemically undifferent from what comes out of the pancreas .
and as we &apos;re talking about bacteria , do you realize that each of us in our gut is leading more bacteria than cells in the rest of our bodies ?
maybe 10 times as many .
i mean , think , if antonio damasio asks for your self-image , do you think about the bacteria ?
our gut is a wonderfully hostile environment for these bacteria .
it &apos;s warm , it &apos;s dark , it &apos;s wet , it &apos;s very comfortable .
and you &apos;re going to give them all the nutrients that they could only wish without any effort at all .
and so when people make decisions , and even though the results of decisions are good , they feel disappointed , they accuse themselves .
it &apos;s a really easy way for bacteria , with occasional interruptions of unintended , jeodch forced to exit .
but otherwise , they &apos;re a wonderful environment for these bacteria , just as they matter to their lives .
they &apos;re helping digestive nutrients , and they &apos;re protecting them against certain diseases .
but what &apos;s going to come in the future ?
are we in a kind of evolutionary equilibrium in the form of a species ?
or are we certainly going to be something else -- something that might even be better adapted to the environment ?
now , let &apos;s take a step back to the time of the big bang , 14 billion years ago -- the earth , the solar system , about four and a half billion years ago -- the first signs of living things , maybe three to four billion years ago on earth -- the first multicellular organisms , maybe as much as 800 or a billion years ago -- and then the human species , which eventually form in the last 130,000 years .
in this vast unfinished symphony of the universe , life on earth is only briefly measured ; the animal kingdom , like a single bar ; and human life , a small notation .
that &apos;s us .
this is also the entertainment value of this talk , so i hope you &apos;ve enjoyed it .
clinical depression exploded in the industrial world in the last generation .
now , when i was a neuling in college , i had my first biology class .
i was fascinated by the elegance and beauty of biology .
i fell in love with the power of evolution , and i found something very fundamental : in most of the existence of life in individual organisms , each cell divides , and all of the genetic information of the cell is carried on into both daughter cells .
but at the time when multicellular organisms showed up , things began to change .
sexual reproduction comes into the picture .
and most importantly , with the introduction of sexual reproduction that the genome passes on , the rest of the body becomes desirable .
in fact , you could say that the inevitability of the death of your body is entering in the same moment as sexual reproduction .
now i have to say , when i was a college student , i thought , okay , sex / death , sex / death , death for sex -- it seemed pretty reasonable at the time , but every year , it &apos;s come to my increasingly doubt .
i &apos;ve come to understand the feelings of george burns , who performed his show in las vegas in the &apos; 90s .
and one night , there &apos;s a knob on his hotel door .
i think a significant -- not the only one , but a significant contributor to this depression explosion , and also suicide , is that people have experienced disappointing because their standards are so high , and then , if they have to explain these experiences , they think it would be their fault .
he opens the door .
it &apos;s a beautifully dressed showgirl in front of it .
she looks at him and she says , &quot; i &apos;m here for super-sex . &quot;
&quot; that &apos;s wonderful , &quot; says george , &quot; i &apos;m going to take the soup . &quot;
i came to the conclusion as a doctor that i was working on a goal that was different from the goal of evolution -- not necessarily contradicting , just different .
i tried to preserve the body .
i wanted to keep us healthy .
i wanted to restore the health of a disease .
i wanted us to live a long and healthy life .
evolution is all about the passing of the genome to the next generation , adaptation and survival generation after generation .
and so the imagery is that we &apos;re doing better generally , objectively , and we &apos;re feeling worse .
from an evolutionary standpoint , they and i are designed like boster rockets to send the genetic question to the next level of the orbit , and then fall into the sea .
i think we would all understand the mood that woody gave to everybody when he said , &quot; i don &apos;t want immortality from my work .
i want to do it by not dying . &quot;
evolution doesn &apos;t necessarily mean to prefer the longest life .
it doesn &apos;t necessarily prioritize the biggest , the strongest , or the fastest , and not even the smartest .
evolution prioritizes the creatures that are best adapted to their environment .
it &apos;s just the test of survival and success .
on the bottom of the ocean , bacteria are there that are thermophil , and by doing so , the hot steam will survive otherwise , if fish were there , it would be a vacuum of cooked fish , yet they &apos;ve managed to make a habitable environment for themselves .
so , what does that mean when we look back at what &apos;s happening in evolution , and how we think about the space of people in evolution , and particularly how we look forward to the next phase , i would say that there are a number of possibilities .
the first is that we &apos;re not going to move forward .
in 1957 , five missionary contact was trying to take place and make a severe mistake .
so let me remind you .
we &apos;ve achieved some kind of balance .
and the reason for that would be that , first of all , through medicine , we were able to get a lot of genes that would have otherwise been selected out and had been removed from the population .
and secondly , we as a species have configuring our environment so that we &apos;ve managed to adapt to us , and we adapt to them .
and by the way , we &apos;re wandering and circulating and mixing so much that they can no longer say that isolation is necessary for evolution to find status .
a second possibility is that it will be evolution of the traditional way , of course , imposed by the forces of nature .
and the argument here would be that the wheels of evolution are slowly mating , but they &apos;re imperative .
and as far as the isolation goes , if we colonize distant planets as a species , there will be isolation and change in the environment that could produce evolution in a natural way .
but there &apos;s a third possibility , a seductive , fascinating and terrifying possibility .
i call it neo-evolution -- the new development that isn &apos;t just natural , but led and decided to be individual in the decisions that we make .
now , how could that happen ?
this is the official dogma that we all think is right is completely wrong . it &apos;s not true .
how could we be able to do that ?
let &apos;s start by looking at the reality that people today , in some cultures , make decisions about their offspring .
they are , in some cultures , the choice to have more men than women .
it &apos;s not necessarily good for society , but it &apos;s what the individual and the family decide .
so think , if it wasn &apos;t just possible to choose the gender of your child , but also to do genetic adaptations in your body , to cure and prevent the disease .
what if you could make the genetic changes to eliminate diabetes or alzheimer &apos;s , or reduce the risk of cancer or stroke ?
wouldn &apos;t you want to make these changes in your genes ?
if we look ahead , these kinds of changes will be increasingly possible .
the human genome project started in 1990 , and it took 13 years .
it cost 2.7 billion dollars .
there &apos;s no question that &apos;s a little better than none , but it doesn &apos;t follow that more choice is better than choice .
the next year , when it was done in 2004 , they were able to do the same thing for 20 million dollars in drone to four months .
today , you can complete a sequence of the three billion base pairs of the human genome at a price of about 20,000 dollars and in the space of about a week .
it &apos;s not going to take a long time for the reality to be that there &apos;s going to be the $ 1,000 human genome , and there &apos;s going to be more and more available to everybody .
a week ago , the national academy of engineering gave the draper prize for francis arnold and wild stemmer , two scientists who developed independently the natural process of evolution to work faster and to lead desirable proteins in an efficient way -- which frances arnold calls &quot; direct evolution . &quot;
a few years ago , the laser prize was given to the scientist shinya yamanaka for his research where he took a adult skin cell , a fibroblaste , and by manipulating just four genes , the cell induced to take it back to a pluripotent stem cell -- a cell potentially is able to become any cell in your body .
these changes are coming .
the same technology that the human insulin can produce in bacteria can make viruses that can not only protect themselves , but also serve immunity against other viruses .
believe it or not , it &apos;s an experimental study in the gang with vaccine against influenza that &apos;s been grown in the cells of a tobacco plant .
can you imagine something good coming out of tobacco ?
this is all reality today , and in the future , it &apos;s going to be much more possible .
there &apos;s a magical amount . i don &apos;t know what it is .
so imagine just two other small changes .
you can change the cells in your body , but what if you could change the cells of your descendants ?
what if you could change the sperm and the egg or the newly fertilized egg to give your children a better chance for a healthier life -- eliminating diabetes , eliminating the hemophilia , reducing the risk of cancer ?
who doesn &apos;t want healthier children ?
and then the analytical technology , the same engine of science that can enable the change to prevent disease , could also give us super-attributes to adopt , hyper-capacity -- the better memory .
why don &apos;t we have the capability of a ken jennings , especially if you can expand it with the next generation of the watson machine ?
why not have the fast muscle fibers that will allow you to run faster and longer ?
why no longer live ?
these will be irresistible .
and if we &apos;re in a place where we can pass it on to the next generation , and we can adopt the attributes that we want , we &apos;re going to be transformed by alt style evolution into neo-evolution .
i &apos;m pretty sure that we &apos;ve missed this point in a long time when we choose to make our public good better .
we &apos;re going to have a process that usually takes maybe 100,000 years , and we can compress it to a thousand years -- and maybe even in the next 100 years .
these are decisions that your grandchildren have to deal with , or your grandchildren .
do we use these decisions to form a society that &apos;s better , that &apos;s more successful , that &apos;s more friendly ?
or will we selectively choose different attributes that we want to have for some of us and not for others of us ?
are we going to form a society of dirt and uniformers , or robuster and more diverse ?
these are the kinds of questions that we need to face .
and the deepest of all , are we ever going to be able to develop the wisdom and master the wisdom that we &apos;re going to need to make these decisions wise ?
in the good and the bad , and before you might think , these decisions will be on us .
thank you .
i want you to imagine something now , a portable robot that gives you superhuman ability , or another one that helps wheelchair drivers to stand up and go .
now , as a policy question -- i &apos;m almost done -- as a basic question , the idea of thinking about this is , what all of these choices allow in the industrialized societies is the material of wealth .
we at berkeley bionics call these robots exoskeletons .
they &apos;re nothing but something that they put on in the morning that gives them extra strength , and that will continue to increase their speed , and that will help them keep their balance , for example .
this is , in fact , the true melting of human and machine .
but not only that -- they merge and connect with the universe and other devices out there .
it &apos;s not just a crazy idea .
now , to show you what we &apos;re working on , we &apos;re starting to talk about the american soldier , who carries about 100 pounds on the average of his back , and the question is that they should carry more equipment .
of course , this leads to some major complications -- spinal injuries , 30 percent of them -- chronic spinal injury .
so we thought that we would embrace this challenge and create an exoskeleton that would help deal with this problem .
so let me introduce you now to hulc -- or the human universal load carrier .
soldier : with the hulc exoskeleton , i can carry 200 pounds over different terrain for many hours .
there are many places in the world , and we &apos;ve heard about many of them , whose problem is not too big a choice .
its flexible design allows you to be deep , to crawl , to crawl and to execute highly agile movements .
it feels what i want to do , where i want to go and then increase my strength and resilience .
we are so far to imagine with our industrial partner of this device , this new exoskeleton in this year .
so it &apos;s true .
so let &apos;s take a look at the wheelchair drivers , something that i &apos;m particularly passionate about .
there are 68 million people who are sitting in the wheelchair in the world .
that &apos;s about one percent of the population .
and that &apos;s actually a conservative estimate .
we &apos;re often talking about very young people with spinal cord injuries , who were in the bloodtime of their lives -- 20s , 30s , &apos; 40s -- were hit by the destiny , and the wheelchair is the only option .
but it &apos;s also about the aging population , whose number is multiplied .
their problem is that they have too little .
and pretty much the only option -- when it comes to a brainstorm , or other complications -- is the wheelchair .
and so , by the way , it &apos;s been 500 years since , as i have to say , it &apos;s been very successful introduction .
so we thought we could start writing a whole new chapter in mobility .
now , let me introduce you to elegs , which is carried by amanda boxtel , who suffered a spinal cord injury 19 years ago , which is the result that she couldn &apos;t walk for 19 years and now .
thank you .
as i said , amanda carries our elephant .
it has sensors .
his completely non-invasive sensors in the crutches , which send back signals to our onboard-computer , which is attached to your back .
here are also batteries , the engine engine is on their hips , as well as on their knees , which they move forward in this pretty smooth and very natural gait .
i was 24 years old , and in best form , when a monstrous purchase tree was paralyzing me as a ski ride .
so the things i &apos;m talking about are a strange problem of modern , rich , western societies .
in the fraction of a second , i lost every feeling and movement below my basin .
not long after that , a doctor went to my hospital room , and he said , &quot; amanda , you will never be able to go again . &quot;
and that was 19 years ago .
he was stealing out of every five times of hope from my consciousness .
adaptive technologies have allowed me since then to learn to ski , to climb , to climb and even drive with my hands .
but nothing was invented that would let me go again , so far .
thank you .
as you can see , we have the technology , we have the platforms to meet and discuss with them .
it &apos;s in our hands , and we have all the potential here to change the lives of future generations -- not just for the soldiers , or for amanda here and all the wheelchair drivers , but for everyone .
thank you .
and what &apos;s so frustrating and angry is that steve levitt yesterday told you about how these expensive and hard to install car seats don &apos;t help . it &apos;s a waste of money .
at home in new york , i &apos;m the head of the development department of a nonprofit called robin hood .
if i &apos;m not fighting poverty , i &apos;m fighting as a fireman for a volunteer deletion to fight the fire .
well , in our town , where volunteers were supporting a highly skilled professional defense , you have to be in the hot spot quite early to be able to mix .
i remember my first fire .
i was the second volunteer in the branding site , so i had a pretty good chance to be able to go in .
but it was still a race against the other volunteers to reach the responsible headman and figure out what our tasks would be .
when i found the main man , he had just had a very serious conversation with the owner of the house that certainly had one of the worst days of their lives .
it was in the middle of the night , and she was standing in the bedrock and barefoot under a screen out in the flowing rain while her house was standing in flames .
the other volunteer who had just arrived in front of me -- call him lex luther -- reached the main man first and was asked to go to the house and save the dog of the house owner .
the dog ! i was very tired of language .
they threw shiny photos out of the air , which we would consider a friendly gesture , and they forgot that these people from the rainforest in their lives had never seen anything two-dimensional .
what i &apos;m telling you is that these expensive , complicated decisions -- it &apos;s not easy that they don &apos;t help .
there was some lawyer or assets who could now tell people for the rest of his life that he went to a burning house to save a living creature , just because he was five seconds faster than i was .
well , i was next .
the headman was waving me .
he said , &quot; bezos , you have to go into the house .
you have to go up , you have to go by the fire , and you have to get this woman a pair of shoes . &quot;
i swear it .
now , not exactly what i had hoped to do , but i went -- the stairs up , the hallway down , past the &quot; real &quot; firemen who were already quite ready to delete at that point in time , into the bedroom to get some shoes .
i know what you &apos;re thinking now , but i &apos;m not a hero .
i carried my prey down where i met my neck at the front door and the beloved dog .
we carried our estimates out to the house owner , where , not surprisingly , he got a lot more attention than mine .
they even hurt .
a couple of weeks later , the firemen got a letter from the owner &apos;s home , where they were thanking for the brave use of rescuing their house .
one about all the most estimated kindness : somebody had actually brought her a pair of shoes .
both in my profession at robin hood and in my side profession as a volunteer fireman , i &apos;m witnessing generosity and kindness at large scale , but i also see the actions of the charity and the mute of individuals .
and you know what i learned ?
they &apos;re all important .
so when i look around this room and i see people who may have achieved a remarkable success , or are on their way there , i want to offer the following memory : don &apos;t wait .
don &apos;t wait to make a difference in somebody else &apos;s life , until they &apos;ve reached their first million .
if you have something to give , you &apos;ll give it now .
serve in a soup kitchen , clean up a park in the neighborhood .
be a mentor .
they make us worse standing there .
not every day will offer us a chance to save the lives of a human , but every day offers us the opportunity to change one .
so go ahead ; save the shoes .
thank you .
bruno guissani : mark , mark , come back .
thank you .
i &apos;m just coming back from a community that knows the secret to the progression of humanity .
a place where women lead the ceptor , with sex , say hello , and the game determines the day -- where fun is a serious issue .
and no , it &apos;s not burning man or san francisco .
ladies and gentlemen , their relativity .
this is the world of wild bonobos in the forest of congo .
if anything that enables the people of our society to make these decisions about the societies in which people have shifted too little choice , it would not only improve people &apos;s lives , but it would also improve our dignity .
bonobos are our nearest living relatives with chimpanzees .
that means we have a common ancestor , an evolutionary grandmother who lived about six million years ago .
well , chimpanzees are known for their aggressivity .
but unfortunately , we &apos;ve overstated this aspect in the narrative of human evolution .
but bonobos show us the other side of the medal .
while chimpanzees are led by great , frightening guys , the bonobo society is led by empowered females .
they &apos;ve really come up with something , because that leads to a very tolerant society where deadly violence has not been observed yet .
but unfortunately , bonobos are least known among the primates .
they live in the depths of the congolese forest , and it &apos;s hard to see .
the congo is a paradox -- a country of extraordinary biodiversity and beauty , but also the heart of the darkness itself -- the scene of a violent argument that has been devastated for decades , and has asked almost as many lives as the first world war .
economists call this a pareto improvement application .
it &apos;s not surprising that this destruction also threatens the survival of the bonobos .
meat trade and the decline of the tree ingredient leads to the fact that you couldn &apos;t even fill a stadium with the bonobos that are left -- and even there we &apos;re not sure to be honest .
and yet , in this country of violence and chaos , you can hear a hidden laugh that the trees are shaking .
who are these relatives ?
we know them as &quot; love instead of war &quot; monkeys , because they have frequently , bisexual sex , with changing partners , and rules like that , conflict and social angels .
i &apos;m not saying that &apos;s the answer to all humanitarian problems -- because the bonobos &apos; lives are more than the cama sutra .
bonobos -- like people -- love playing your life .
play doesn &apos;t just mean child games .
for us and it &apos;s play that is fundamental to connecting relationships and the care of tolerance .
and we learn trust and the rules of the game .
income distribution is going to make it better for everybody -- not just the poor -- because all this big choice is going to plain us .
play enhances creativity and resilience , and it &apos;s all about the creation of diversity -- diversity of interactions , diversity of behaviors , diversity of connections .
and when you watch bonobos play , you see the evolutionary origins of human salmon , dance and rituals .
play is the tickle that keeps us apart .
well , i don &apos;t know how they play , but i want to show you some unique footage from the wild .
first of all , a ball game in bonobo-style -- and i don &apos;t think of football .
so here &apos;s a young female and male in a tracking game .
look at what she &apos;s doing .
that could be the evolutionary origin of , &quot; it grabs it in the eggs . &quot;
just that i think he likes it more , right .
yes !
finally , please read this cartoon , and , a very sophisticated person , says , &quot; ah ! what does this fish know ?
so sex games are common , both bonobos and humans .
and this video is really interesting , because it shows -- and this video is really interesting , because it shows the wealth of ideas that you bring in new elements -- like the testicles -- and also how the game both requires trust and promotes -- while at the same time , it &apos;s incredibly fun .
but the game is a shape-shifter .
play is a shape-shifter , and it can take many forms , some of which are a little bit quieter , fanciful , curious -- maybe to rediscover the astonishing .
and i want to show you , this is fuku , a young female , and she plays peaceful with water .
i think , just like they do , we sometimes play alone , and we &apos;re reading the limits of our inner and outer worlds .
and it &apos;s this playful curiosity that lets us explore and interact , and the unexpected connections that we create are the real nutrition of creativity .
this is just a little taste of the insights that bonobos give us in our past and present .
but they also maintain a secret to our future , a future in which we need to adapt to increasing challenges , through greater creativity and drug-enhanced cooperation .
the secret is that the game is the key to these skills .
you don &apos;t know anything possible in this goldfish glass . &quot;
in other words , play is our adaptation joker .
to fit us successfully to an unstable world , we have to play .
but are we going to make the best of our play drive ?
play is not silly .
it &apos;s essential .
for bonobos and people equally , life is not made of teeth and claws alone .
just when it doesn &apos;t seem like it &apos;s hardly appropriate to play .
and so , my primate comrades , let &apos;s hug this gift of evolution and play together , while we rediscover the creativity of cameroon and the wonder .
thank you .
i want you to imagine two pairs , in the middle of 1979 , on exactly the same day , at the same moment , every baby -- okay .
impoverished imagination , a short-sighted view of the world -- and that &apos;s the way i read it first .
so two pairs , every baby .
now , i don &apos;t want you to spend too much time imagining the production , because if you imagine all the time making , you won &apos;t listen to me .
imagine that for a moment .
and in this scenario , imagine that in one case , the sperm is wearing a y chomosom that &apos;s hitting the x chromosome of the egg cell .
and in the other case , the sperm carries a x chromosome that meets the x chromosome of the egg cell .
both of them are survival , both of them are light .
we &apos;ll come back to these people later .
most of my activities , i have two hats .
under a hat , i &apos;m involved in the history of anatomy .
i &apos;m a historian , and in this case , i study how people were dealing with anatomy -- meaning human bodies , animal bodies -- how they were dealing with body fluids , with body concepts , as they were thinking about bodies .
but the more i thought about it , the more i came to the view that the fish knows something .
the other hat i &apos;ve been wearing in my work is the activist , as a patient lawyer -- or , as i sometimes say , as an impatient lawyer -- of people who are patients of doctors .
in this case , i &apos;ve been working with people who have body types who challenge social norms .
so for example , i worked with people who are siamesian twins , two people in a body .
i worked with people with dwarfs -- so people who were smaller than usual .
and very often , i &apos;ve been working with intersexual people whose gender is atypical -- so people who don &apos;t have the average male or female body types .
and as a general term , we can use the word &quot; intersexuality . &quot;
intersexuality is in many different forms .
i &apos;m just going to give you a few examples of the possible types of gender variants that don &apos;t correspond to the male or female standard .
in one case , you might have someone with an xy chromosome base , and the sry gene of the y chomosoms is the protogonads that we all have to grow up with the fetal stage .
and that &apos;s why the testosterone is in the fetal stadium .
they picked up these photographs from the forest floor , tried to see behind the face or the character , found nothing and concluded that these were business cards of the devil , and killed the five missionaries with the spear .
because the truth is , if you break the gold glass , so that everything is possible , you don &apos;t have freedom . you have paralysis .
but because this individual is missing the receptors to see the testosterone , the body is not responding to the testosterone .
and this is called androgen receptor defect .
so a lot of testosterone , but no reaction to that .
as a consequence , the body is more likely to evolve to the typical female course .
when the child is born , she looks like a girl .
she &apos;s a girl . she &apos;s being educated as a girl .
but it takes most of the time for them to reach puberty and grow their breasts and develop , but it doesn &apos;t get their periodic table until someone comes to the point that there &apos;s something else .
and they do some tests , and they find that instead of ovarying and uterus , they actually carry testicles and they have a y chromosome .
and it &apos;s important to understand that you could actually think of this person as a male , but they &apos;re not really .
women , like men , have something in our bodies called adrenaline glands .
if you break the gold glass , so that everything is possible , you reduce the happiness .
they &apos;re in the back of our bodies .
and the side ones make androgens , which are virilizing hormones .
most women , like me -- i think being a typical woman -- i don &apos;t really know my actual chromosome building , but i think i probably have the typical -- most women like me are actually talking about androgens .
we produce androgen , and we respond to androgens .
the consequence is that someone like me actually has a brain that was exposed to more androgens than a woman who was born with testicles and had an androgenic deceptor defect .
so gender is really complicated ; intersexuals are not just in the middle of the spectrum of gender -- in a way , they can be distributed across the bandwidth .
another example : a few years ago , i got a call from a 19 year-old man who was born a boy , raised as a boy , had a friend , had sex with his girlfriend , lived as a man , and he had just found out that he had ovaries and a uterus .
he had an extreme form of an innate side cattle hyperbubble .
he has xx chromosome , and in the womb , his side kidneys were so active that they basically created a male hormone environment .
and as a consequence , his genitals were mapped male , his brain was exposed to the more typical male part of the hormone spectrum .
they increase the paralysis and reduce the happiness .
and when he was born , he looked like a boy -- no one knew anything .
and only when he turned 19 years old did he get enough medical problems , in fact , because he was inwardly mentioning that the doctors found out that he was female inside .
okay , just one quick example of a variation of intersexuality .
some people with xx chromosomes , they develop something called ovotestis , where ovarian tissue is surrounded by host tissue .
we don &apos;t know exactly why this is happening .
so gender can occur in many different varieties .
the reason why children with this kind of body -- whether it &apos;s dwarfs or siamesian twins , whether it &apos;s intersexually -- from surgeons often are adapted to the norm , is not because that would be advantage to their physical health .
in many cases , these people are completely healthy .
the reason why they often do different kinds of surgical interventions is because they threaten our social categories .
typically , our system is based on the idea that a certain anatomic aspiration is going to be accompanied with a particular identity .
everybody needs a gold glass .
so we have the concept that to be a woman is to have a female identity , to be a black person , to say , supposedly , to have an african anatomy in terms of your own story .
so we have this incredibly simplistic idea .
and when we &apos;re faced with a body that actually represents something very different for us , it confuses us in terms of these categorizations .
so we have a lot of romantic ideas in our culture about individualism .
and our nation is really based on a very romantic concept of individualism .
now , you can imagine how amazing it is when children are born , who are two people in a body .
where i had been most exciting recently , the south african runner caster semenya last year , whose gender was challenged in the world cup of berlin .
many journalists called me on the question , &quot; what are you going to do that tells us if caster semenya is female or male ? &quot;
and i had to explain to the journalists that there &apos;s no test .
we now know that gender is complicated enough that we have to admit that nature is not a line for us between male and female , or between male and intersexually and intersexually , and intersexually , in fact , we are the ones that prefer this line as natural .
this is almost limited to complete security -- possibly for the fish , definitely for us .
so we have a situation where , as we continue our science , we have to admit that these categories that we thought were stable anatomic categories , which made very simple arrangements to create permanent identity categories , are much more unsharper than we thought we were .
and that &apos;s not just in terms of gender .
it &apos;s also true of race , which turns out to be much more complicated than our terminology has allowed .
when we look at it , we &apos;re entering all sorts of uncomfortable areas .
for example , we &apos;re finding the fact that we have at least 95 percent of our dna with chimpanzees .
what should we do with the fact that we &apos;re different from them by a few nucleotides ?
as we move our science further and further , we &apos;re getting into a zone of uncomfort , where we have to recognize that the simplistic categories that we probably had are too simple .
we see this in all sorts of different ways of human life .
one of the areas in which we see this in the beipiel , in our culture today , in the united states today , are the fighting over the beginning and the end of life .
we have difficult conversations about where a body becomes human , so that it has a different right than the fetal life .
but being a metaphorical goldfish glass is a recipe for misery , and , i suspect , disaster .
we have very difficult arguments today -- maybe not as public as in medicine -- about the question of when someone &apos;s dead .
our ancestors had never had a hard time fighting with the question of when someone was dead .
they &apos;ve held a feather under their nose , and when they moved , they haven &apos;t buried it yet .
if it didn &apos;t move anymore , you &apos;d buried it .
but today , we &apos;re in a situation where we &apos;re taking people out of vital organs and wanting to plant them to other people .
and as a result , we &apos;re caught in the fight with the really difficult question of when someone is dead , and that brings us into a really difficult situation where we don &apos;t have as simple categories as we used to .
now you might think that the whole collapse of categories would make someone like me really happy .
i &apos;m progressive politically , i defend people with unusual bodies , but i have to admit , it makes me nervous .
to understand that these categories are really much more insecure than we thought , makes me excited .
and it makes me excited about democracy in terms of consideration .
thank you very much .
so to tell you about this tension , i have to first know that i &apos;m a big fan of the founding fathers .
i know they were racial , i know they were sexist , but they were great .
i think they were so brave and so strong , and so radical , in what they did , i found myself looking at the malignant musical 1776 every few years , and it &apos;s not because of the music that &apos;s absolutely forgotten .
it &apos;s because of what happened with the founding fathers in 1776 .
the founding fathers , in my view , were the original anatomic activists , and that &apos;s why .
what they proved was an anatomic concept , and they replaced it through another that was radical and beautiful , and 200 years was measurable to us .
as you all remember , our founding fathers rejected the concept of the monarchy , and the monarchy was basically based on a very simplistic concept of anatomy .
the rulers of the old world had no concept based on the dna , but they had a concept of birth rights .
they had a concept of blue blood .
they were thinking that people who had political power should have this political power because of the inherited bloodline from grandfather to son and so on .
you know , i &apos;ve been talking about some of these projects before , about the human genome and what that might mean , and the discovery of new groups of genes .
the founding fathers returned this idea , and they replaced it through a new anatomic concept , and this concept said that all people were created equally .
they niveled the play field , and they decided that anatomically , the common counting , not the differences , and that was very radical .
now , they did this in part because they were part of an educational system where two things grew together .
democracy grew up , but at the same time , science grew up .
if you look at the history of the founding fathers , it &apos;s clear that many of you were very interested in science , and you were interested in a concept of a naturalistic world .
they went away from explanations of supernatural ways , and they showed things like a supernatural concept of power , where the transmission is based on a very vague concept of birth .
they moved to a natural concept .
and if you look at , for example , the declaration of independence , they talk about nature and the god of nature .
they &apos;re not talking about god and nature of god .
they &apos;re talking about the power of nature to tell us who we are .
in fact , we &apos;re starting from a new point : we &apos;ve digitized biology , and now we &apos;re trying to get from the digital code into a new phase of biology by designing and building new life .
and as part of it , they gave us a concept that was about anatomical commonalities .
and they &apos;ve been preparing , in a really wonderful way , the future civil rights movement .
they didn &apos;t think about it that way , but what they did for us was great .
so what happened years after that ?
for example , women who were working on the right to vote , the concept of the founding fathers , which says that anatomic common is more important than the anatomic difference , and said , &quot; that we have a uterus and an ovarian hives is not important enough as a difference , that we should not have the right to vote , the right to full citizenship , the right to own property , etc . &quot;
and women argued successfully .
the next was the successful civil rights movement , where we saw people like sodiscover truth , who spach over it , &quot; am i not a woman ? &quot;
we find men in the marching rows of the citizen movement saying , &quot; i &apos;m a man . &quot;
again , people of different skin color , which are based on anatomical commonalities before anatomic differences , again , successfully .
we see the same thing with the disability movement .
we &apos;ve always tried to ask meaningful questions .
of course , the problem is that , as we start to look at all the similarities , we have to start to question why we keep certain separations .
well , i want to sustain certain separations , anatomically , in our culture .
for example , i don &apos;t want to give a fish the same rights as a human being .
i don &apos;t want to say that we should take away from anatomy .
i don &apos;t want to say that five year-olds should have the right to give their consent to sex or marry .
so there are some anatomical separations that make sense to me , and that i think we should keep .
but the challenge is to try to figure out which one it is and why we keep it , and whether it makes sense .
so let &apos;s go back to these two creatures that have been fathered at the beginning of the talk .
we have two creatures , both in the middle of 1979 , on the same day .
let &apos;s imagine that one of them , maria , was born three months ago , so she was born on june 1 , 1980 .
we go through initiation rituals .
but the waorani didn &apos;t just kill the outsiders with the spear .
what is life ? it &apos;s something that i think many biologists have tried to understand and do at different levels .
heinrich , on the other hand , is born to the birthday , so he &apos;s born on march 180 , 1980 .
just because of the fact that maria was born three months before heinrich , she gets to have all kinds of rights three months before heinrich -- the right to take sex , to choose the right , to drink the right .
heinrich has to wait for all of this , not because he actually has a different biological age , just because of the time of his birth .
we find other oddities about what their rights are .
heinrich , since you think he &apos;s male -- although i didn &apos;t tell you he &apos;s the one with xy -- because you assume he &apos;s a male , he can now be drawn in what maria doesn &apos;t have to worry about .
maria , on the other hand , can &apos;t see the same right in all states that heinrich has in all states , and that is the right to marry .
heinrich can marry a woman in every state , but maria can now only marry a woman in a few states .
so we have these permanent anatomic categories that are problematic and questionable in many ways .
and to me , the question is : what are we going to do , because our science is making such progress in the field of anatomy , that we have to make a point where we have to admit that a democracy based on anatomy could fall apart ?
i don &apos;t want to give up science , but at the same time it feels like science is doing itself .
we &apos;ve tried different approaches to simplify it down to the minimum components .
so where do we go ?
it seems like our culture has a kind of pragmatic posture : &quot; well , we have to draw a line somewhere , so we pull it somewhere . &quot;
but a lot of people are caught in a very strange position .
so for example , texas decided at one point that to marry a man means that you don &apos;t have a y chromosome , and to marry a woman means you have a y chromosome .
now in practice , people are not tested for their chromosome .
but it &apos;s also very bizarre , because of the story that i told you about the androgen receptor defect at the beginning .
if we look at one of the founding fathers of modern democracy , dr. martin luther king , he offers us in his &quot; i have a dream &quot; a kind of solution .
he says we should not judge people by &quot; their skin color , but by the trait of their character , &quot; and go beyond anatomy .
and i want to say , &quot; yes , that sounds like a really good idea . &quot;
but how do you do that in practice ?
we digitized almost 20 years . when we sequenced the human genome , the shift from the analog world of biology to the digital world of computers .
how do you judge people because of their characteristics ?
i also want to point out that i &apos;m not sure that we should distribute rights in this way to people , because i have to admit that i know a number of golden retriever , which probably deserves socially rather than some people i know .
i want to argue that i probably also know some bright labradordogs , who are more capable of making more sophisticated , more intelligent and more mature decisions about their sexual relationships than some of the 40-year-olds i know .
so how are we going to operate the question of the character ?
it turns out to be really difficult .
and a part of me is wondering , what if the content of a personality was something that would be machine readable in the future -- could be made visible by fmri ?
do we really want to go this way ?
i &apos;m not sure where we &apos;re going .
what i know is that it really seems to be important to think about the idea that the united states is leading to thinking about democracy questions .
in our effort for democracy , we &apos;ve done our thing really well , and i think we &apos;d do well in the future .
now we &apos;re trying to ask , can we regenerate life , or can we create new life , from this digital universe ?
we don &apos;t have the situation , for example , as it is in iran , where a man who is sexually drawn to other men is punished with death , unless he is willing to take a gender change , in which case he can stay alive .
these kinds of states don &apos;t exist with us .
i &apos;m glad to say that we don &apos;t have these states -- a surgeon that i talked to a few years ago , who had brought some siamese twins in to separate them , partly to make a name .
but when i was telephone with him , and i asked him why he did these interventions -- they were very risky surgeries -- his answer was that in his country , these children would be treated very poorly , and therefore he had to do it .
and i said to him , &quot; well , did you consider political asylum rather than having an operation to separate it ? &quot;
the united states provides incredible opportunities to allow people to be the ones they are without having to change for the state of affairs .
so i think we need to be leaders .
well , just to finish , i want to notice that i &apos;ve talked a lot about the fathers .
and i want to think about the possibilities of what democracy might look like , or what it might have looked like if we had more involved the mothers .
and i want to say something that is a little bit radical for a feminist , and that is , i think , that there might be different kinds of insights that govern different kinds of anatomy , especially when people use a group thinking .
this is the map of a small organism , mycoplasma geitalium , which has the smallest genome of a species that can replicate itself in the lab , and we &apos;ve tried to do this with a smaller genome .
for years , because i &apos;ve been interested in intersexuality , i &apos;ve also been interested in gender research .
and one of the things that i found really interesting is the difference between men and women in terms of how they think and operate in the world .
what we &apos;ve learned from cross-cultural studies is that women , on average -- not every one , but on average -- tend to give a lot of complex social relationships and care to people who are vulnerable within the group , are very much attention .
and that &apos;s why , when we think about it , we have an interesting situation .
years ago , when i was a graduate student , one of my graduate students asked me , who knew my interest in feminism -- i looked at myself as a feminist , and i &apos;m still doing it -- a really curious question .
he said , &quot; tell me what feminism is female . &quot;
and i thought , &quot; well , that &apos;s the stupidest question i &apos;ve ever heard .
feminism is about solving stereotypes about gender , so feminism is not female .
but the more i thought about his question , the more i thought there could be something female in feminism .
that is to say there could be something , on average , which makes female brains different from male brains , which makes us more careful for highly complex social relationships , and more careful for the protective needs .
we &apos;ve managed to get about a hundred genes from the 500 or so that are here .
so where the founding fathers were extremely concerned about how individuals could be protected from the state , it &apos;s possible that if we put more mothers in this concept , we would get more of a concept , not just how to protect , but how to care for each other .
and maybe it &apos;s where we need to go in the future when we &apos;re going to take democracy beyond anatomy -- thinking less about the individual body in terms of identity , and thinking more about relationships .
so that if , as a people , we try to make a more perfect connection , we think about what we can do for each other .
thank you .
i &apos;m jessi , and this is my suitcase .
but before i show you what i have in it , i &apos;m going to make a very public confession , and that &apos;s : i &apos;m obsessed with outfits .
i love to find a different colorful , crazy outfit , and also to photograph and blog recently .
but i don &apos;t buy anything new .
i get all my clothes from second-hand to flew markets and second-hand shops .
ooh , thank you .
but if we look at this metabolic map , which is very simple , compared to ours , trust me , that &apos;s simple , but if we look at all these genes that we can eliminate one after the other , it &apos;s very unlikely that this would lead to a living cell .
second-hand shopping allows me to reduce the impact of my shrimp to the environment , and also the money exchange to my wallet .
i meet all sorts of great people ; my dollars usually serve for a good purpose ; i look pretty unique ; and it makes me shop to my own personal search .
i mean , what am i going to find today ?
will it be my size ?
am i going to like the color ?
will it cost less than 20 dollars ?
if all the answers are yes , i feel like i &apos;ve won .
i come back to my suitcase , and i &apos;ll tell you what i packed here at ted for this exciting week .
i mean , what does someone bring in so many outfits ?
so i &apos;m going to show you exactly what i brought with me .
so we decided that the only way forward is to actually synthesize this chromosome , which allows us to variate the individual components and ask some of these fundamental questions .
i brought in seven underpants , and that &apos;s all .
underpants for just one week are all i did in my suitcase .
i woke up that i would find everything else that i might want to wear if i first got to palm springs .
and since you haven &apos;t heard of me , as the woman who &apos;s walking around here at ted in her underwear -- that is , i found some things .
and i want to show you my outfits for this week .
does that sound good ?
while i &apos;m doing that , i &apos;m also going to give you some of the lessons that i &apos;ve learned from , believe it or not , from these adventures , to wear nothing new .
let &apos;s start with sunday .
i call this the bright tiger .
you don &apos;t have to spend a lot of money looking great .
and so we started asking , can we synthesize a chromosome ?
you can almost always look great for less than 50 dollars .
this whole outfit , including the jacket , cost me 55 , and it was the most expensive piece that i was wearing all week .
monday : color is something powerful .
it &apos;s almost physiologically impossible to be miserable when you &apos;re wearing bright red pants .
if you &apos;re happy , you attract other happy people .
tuesday : adaptation is totally overrated .
i &apos;ve spent a lot of my life trying to be myself and adapt at the same time .
just be who you are .
if you surround yourself with the right people , you &apos;re not just going to understand it , you &apos;re going to appreciate it .
wednesday : embrace your inner child .
does it enable the chemistry to create these really big molecules , what has never been done before ?
sometimes people tell me that i looked like i &apos;m playing &quot; dressing , &quot; or that i remember your seven-year-olds .
i like to smile and say , &quot; thank you . &quot;
thursday : confidence is the key .
if you think you look good in something , it &apos;s almost safe .
and if you think you don &apos;t look good at something , you &apos;re probably right .
i grew up with a mother who taught me the day after day .
but it wasn &apos;t until i turned 30 that i really understood what that means .
and i &apos;m going to summarize that for you for a moment .
if you believe that you &apos;re inside and outside a wonderful person , there &apos;s nothing you can &apos;t wear .
so there &apos;s no excuse for someone in this audience .
they drilled through each other .
and if we can do that , can we start the chromosome ?
we should be able to rock everything we want .
thank you .
friday : a universal truth -- five words : golden pailletes fit for everything .
and finally , saturday : developing a unique personal style is a great way to tell the world something about you without having to say a word .
it was proven to me over and over again , when people came up to me this week , just because of what i was wearing , and i had great conversations .
obviously , it &apos;s not going to fit it all in my tiny suitcase .
so before i go home to brooklyn , i &apos;m going to donate it all back .
because the lesson that i &apos;m trying to learn this week is that it &apos;s okay to let go .
i don &apos;t have to emotionally arrest these things , because right around the corner , there &apos;s always going to be another crazy , colorful , radiation outfit that &apos;s waiting for me when i have a little love in my heart and search it .
thank you very much .
a chromosome , by the way , is just a piece of intact chemical material .
thank you .
good afternoon , everybody together .
i have something here that i want to show you .
think of this as a picture , as a flying image .
that &apos;s what we call perceptual design in our lab .
let me tell you a little bit about this .
now , if you take this picture -- i &apos;m an original italian , and every boy in italy grows up with this picture in his room , but the reason i &apos;m going to show you this is because in the formula one in the last decade , something very interesting happened .
a while ago , if you wanted to win a formula one , you took your budget and you put your money on a good driver and a good car .
and if the car and the driver were good enough , they won the race .
now , you need , today , if you want to win a race , in fact , something like this one -- something that actually monitors the car in real time , has a couple of thousands of sensors that give information out of the car , that information to the system , and then process it and then use it to send back that car and change things in real time as information is collected .
our steps in the digitization of life were exponential .
this is what you would call , in engineering teams , a real-time control system .
and basically , it &apos;s a system made of two parts -- a sensual part and a reacting part .
what &apos;s interesting today is the real-time control systems start to appear in our lives .
our cities , in the last few years , have just been equipped with networks and electronics .
they become computers in the free .
and as a computer in the free , they start to react in a different way , they &apos;re perceived and driven .
when we make cities , it &apos;s actually a big deal .
just by the way , i want to mention that cities are only two percent of the world &apos;s land , but 50 percent of the world &apos;s population lives there .
they &apos;re 75 percent of the energy consumption -- up to 80 percent of the co2 emissions .
so if we do something with the cities , that &apos;s a big thing .
our ability to write genetic code has evolved very slowly , but it &apos;s still increased , and our last point would now be on an exponential curve .
beyond the cities , all of this perceive and push into objects of everyday life .
this is from an exhibition that &apos;s paola antonelli for moma later in the year , during the summer .
it &apos;s called &quot; jump with me . &quot;
well , all of our objects , our environment , are starting to talk back to us .
in a certain sense , it &apos;s almost like every atom out there becomes both a sensor and a driver .
and this is radically changing the interaction that we humans have with our environment outside .
in a way , it &apos;s almost like the old dream of michelangelo ...
you know , when michelangelo shaped the moses , it means that he took the hammer at the end and threw it on moses -- in fact , you can still see a little spot underneath -- and said , &quot; perché non parli ? why don &apos;t you talk ? &quot;
well , today , our environment , for the first time , begins to answer us .
i &apos;m just going to show you a few examples -- again , perceiving and driving our environment with the idea .
we started 15 years ago .
let &apos;s start with that .
now the first project i want to introduce you to is actually one of the first of our labs .
it came out four and a half years ago in italy .
and what we did was we actually used a new kind of network that was used all over the world -- this is a mobile phone network -- and using anonymous and aggregated information from this network that was collected from the operator anyway to understand how the city works .
the summer was a happy summer -- 2006 .
it was when italy won the football world cup .
some of you will remember , it was when italy was playing against france , and then at the end of zidane , the head pot .
and anyway , italy ended up winning italy .
now look at what happened that day , just watching the activity that happens in the network .
here you see the city .
it actually took a few years to start with a bioethical review before we did the first experiments .
you can see in the middle the colosseum , the tiver .
in the morning , before the game .
you see the timeline up there .
it used to be afternoon , people here and there , doing calls and moving .
the game starts -- silence .
france makes a gate . italy makes a gate .
half-time , people make a short call , go to a toilet .
second half-time . end of the normal play .
first extension , second .
zidane , in a moment of the head shock .
it turns out that dna synthesization is very difficult .
italy wins . yeah .
well , that night , everybody went to the center to celebrate .
they saw the big impact .
the next day , everybody went to the center to meet the victory team and the prime minister at the same time .
and then everybody went down .
you see the picture of the place around co massimo , where , since the roman time , people go to celebrate -- to have a big party , and you see the impact at the end of the day .
now , this is just one example of how we can feel the city today in a way that we couldn &apos;t do a few years ago .
very quickly , another example of feeling : this is not about people , this is about things that we use and consume .
well , we know all about where our things come from today .
this is a map that shows you all the chips that a mac computer is made of , how they got together .
there are tens of thousands of machines around the world that can make little pieces of dna , 30 to 50 letters long , but it &apos;s a degenerative process , so the longer you make a piece , the more errors happen .
but we know very little about where things go .
so in this project , we actually designed some little markers to track the waste as it goes through the system .
so we started with some volunteers who helped us , a little over a year ago , in seattle , to tag the things that they threw away -- different kinds of things , as you can see -- things that they would throw away anyway .
then we have the little chips , the little brands , glued into the garbage , and we start tracking it .
here are the results that we just got .
from seattle ...
after a week .
with this information , we realized that there are a lot of inefficient things in the system .
we can actually do the same things with less energy .
the data was not available before .
so we had to develop a new method where we could put these little pieces together and correct the mistakes .
but this is what happens to a lot of unuseful transportation and complicated things .
but the other thing is that we believe that every day when we see that the cup that we throw away doesn &apos;t just disappear , that it &apos;s still somewhere on the planet .
and the plastic bottle that we &apos;re still throwing away every day .
and if we showed that to people , we can make a behavioral change .
so that &apos;s why this project is happening .
my colleague at mit , assaf biderman , could tell you a lot more about perceiving and the many other wonderful things that you can perceive , but i &apos;d like to talk to you about the second part that we discussed at the beginning , and that &apos;s the emphasis of our environment .
and the first project is something that we did in zaragoza a few years ago , spain .
it started with a question of the mayor who came to us and said that spain and southern europe have a beautiful tradition to use water as part of architecture in public places .
and the question was : how could you connect technology to this new technology ?
and one of the ideas that was investigated at mit in a workforce was , imagine these tubes , and valves , magnetic valves , they &apos;re opening and closing .
this was our first attempt , starting with the digital information , the phi x 174 genome .
they &apos;re doing something like a water curtain with the imagery of water .
when these images fall down , you can write on them , you can display patterns , images , text .
and you can get close to him , and he &apos;s going to open up to let you jump through , as you can see in this picture .
well , we introduced the mayor to the belly hole .
he loved it very much .
and we got the mission to design a building in the entrance of the expo .
we called it the digital water pavillion .
the whole building was made of water .
there are no doors or windows , but if you approach it , it will open up and let it go .
the roof was also covered with water .
54 percent of the deaths have happened by drilling .
it &apos;s a little virus of bacteria killing .
and if it &apos;s windy , if you want to reduce the syringe , you can even let the roof down .
or you could close the building , and the whole architecture , like in this case , you know , that day , when you go down the roof , you get pictures of people who were there and say , &quot; you &apos;ve destroyed the building . &quot;
no , they didn &apos;t destroy the building , it &apos;s just that architecture almost disappears .
this is how the building works .
you see the person asking themselves what &apos;s going on inside .
and here you see me when i was trying to test the sensors that opened the water , not to get wet .
well , i should tell you what happened one night when all the sensors stopped working .
but in fact , that night , it was an even more fun thing .
all the children from zaragoza came to the building , because the way they played with the building was very different .
no longer a building that would open up to make it happen , but a building that still had breaks and holes in the water , you had to jump now without getting wet .
we made little pieces , we made a error correction , and we had a dna molecule of about 5,000 letters .
and that was , for us , very exciting , because as architects , engineers , as designers , we always think about how the people , the things that we design .
but reality is always unpredictable .
and that &apos;s the beauty of creating things that are used and interacting with people .
so here &apos;s a picture of the building with the physical imagery , the imagery points of water and the projections on it .
and this is what got us thinking about the following project that i &apos;m going to show you now .
imagine these images points could really start to fly .
imagine if you could have little helicopters flying through the air , and each one of them with a little image of changing light -- almost like a cloud that can move through the room .
here &apos;s the video .
imagine a helicopter , like the one you saw earlier , that moves with others , completely synchronized .
you can have this cloud .
the exciting phase came when we took this piece of chemical and put it into a bacterium , and the bacteria started to read the genetic code and made viral particles .
you can have a kind of flexible screen or display , like this -- a smooth formation in two dimensions .
or irregular , but in three dimensions , where what changes is the light , not the position of the dots .
they can play with different species .
imagine the screen could just appear in different formats or sizes in different resolution .
but then the whole thing could be just a 3d cloud of images that you can go through and move through , that you can look at from many , many directions .
here you see a real flyfire-controlling that goes down to shape the same v as it used to be .
when you turn on the light , it looks like this , so the same way we saw it before .
imagine that every single person is being controlled .
it could have a impulse from every single image that comes from people , from the movements of people or something .
i want to show you something too first here .
the viral particles were then released from the cells , and they came back and killed e. coli .
we &apos;ve been working with roberto bolle , one of the best ballet dancers of our time -- the étoile at the metropolitan theater in new york and the scale in milan -- we &apos;ve taken his movements in 3d to use them as a impulse for the flyfire .
this is roberto dancing .
on the left-hand side , you see the imagery , the different infants .
it &apos;s also a real-time 3d scan and a motion shot .
so you can understand the whole movement .
you can do that all the time .
but then once we have all the imagery , you can play with it and play with color motion and motion .
we want to use that as a possible impulse for flyfire .
i want to show you the latest project we &apos;re working on .
it &apos;s something we &apos;re working on for the olympics in london .
i talked to the oil industry recently , and they said they were doing this model precisely .
it &apos;s called the cloud -- the cloud .
the idea is , again , imagine that again , we &apos;re going to engage people in doing something and changing the environment -- almost like what we call the cloud movement , how to move a scheunor , but with a cloud .
imagine that anyone can give a little donation to a picture point .
i think that the remarkable thing that happened in the last few years , the last decade , is that we &apos;ve moved from a physical world to a digital world .
this has digitized everything , knowledge , and it &apos;s made it available through the internet .
today , for the first time -- and the obama campaign has shown this -- we can move from the digital world , from the self-organizing forces of the networks to the physical world .
this can be , in our case , that we use it to design and create a symbol .
that means something that &apos;s built in the city .
but tomorrow , to face the challenges that are coming -- think about climate change or co2 emissions -- how can we then move from the digital world to the physical world ?
so the idea is that we actually involve the people in which they do things together , collectively .
they laughed more than you do here .
the cloud is , again , a cloud of imagery , in the same way as a real cloud is a cloud of particles .
and these particles are water , while our cloud is a cloud of points of imagery .
it &apos;s a physical form in london , but it &apos;s covered with the imagery points .
you can move inside and have different kinds of experiences .
you can actually look at it from the bottom , share the most important moments for olympia in 2012 and beyond , and use it as a kind of connection to the community .
so both , the physical cloud in the sky and something at the top of it you can go , like london &apos;s new mountain summit .
you can go in .
and a kind of digital lightning urb at night -- but most importantly , a new kind of experience for anyone who wants to go to the top .
thank you .
as an artist , i really care about the context .
so we think that this is a situation where software can actually build its own hardware in a biological system .
through my work , i &apos;m trying to express that people are not separate from nature and that everything is connected .
the first time i was in antarctica about 10 years ago , where i saw my first iceberg .
i was honored .
my heart raced , i was dizzy while i was trying to figure out what was in front of me .
the iceberg around me raced almost 60 meters out of the water , and i could only wonder that this was a snowflake on another snowflake , year after year .
iceberg is born a calf of a glacier , or by breaking out of ice customs .
every iceberg has its own individual personality .
they &apos;re clearly interacting with their surroundings and their experiences .
some refuse to give up and claim to the bitter end , while others don &apos;t stop it and collapse in an incident of dramatic passion .
when you look at an iceberg , you think it &apos;s easy to be isolated , separated , and just as people often see us .
but we wanted to go a lot further . we wanted to build an entire bacterial chromosome , and it has more than 580,000 letters of genetic code , and we thought , we &apos;re going to build it in cassette cassets the size of the virus that we could vary the size of the cassette cassette to understand what the individual components of a living cell are .
but the truth is far from it .
as an iceberg melts , i breathe in his pre-time atmosphere .
as the iceberg melts , it releases mineral rich drinking water that feeds many forms of life .
i &apos;m taking my shots of these iceberg , as if i make portraits of my ancestors , in the sense that they exist in these individual moments of this way , and will never exist again .
it &apos;s not a death when they melt ; it &apos;s not an end , it &apos;s a progression of their path along the life cycle .
part of the ice in the iceberg that i &apos;m photographing is very young -- a few thousand years old .
and part of the ice is more than 100,000 years old .
the last images i &apos;d like to show you are an iceberg that i photographed in cookie suatsiak in greenland .
very rarely you &apos;re actually witnessing a rolling iceberg .
so here you see it .
design is the key , and if you want to start with digital information in the computer , this digital information really has to be errors .
on the left you see a little boat .
that &apos;s about five meters long .
please pay attention to the shape of the iceberg , and where it &apos;s on the water line .
you can see here , he &apos;s starting to roll , and the boat has moved to the other side , the man is standing there .
this is the average size of a greenland iceberg .
it takes about 120 feet out of the water , or 40 meters .
and this video is in real time .
and just so , the iceberg shows you a different side of its personality .
thank you .
my life is really extraordinarily blessed by working on some amazing projects .
when we first sequenced the genome in 1995 , the error rate was a mistake per 10,000 base pair .
but the coolest thing i &apos;ve ever worked on is this guy .
his name is tempt .
mt was one of the leading graffiti artists of the &apos; 80s .
then one day , he came back from walking and said , &quot; dad , my legs cribble . &quot;
and that was the outbreak of the al .
tempt is now completely paralyzed .
he can only use his eyes .
i was faced with him .
so i have a company that does design and animations , so graffiti is inevitably a complex part of what we admire and pay attention to in the art world .
so we decided to support tony -- tempt -- and his thing .
we tracked back the geneaology eight generations , and we found two cases of a natural death , and when we asked people about it , they admitted that one of the people had gotten so old that he died because of his age , and we were killing him with the spear anyway .
we found 30 errors when we rescued , and if we had used the original sequence , it would never have been possible to go up .
i met with his father and his brother , and i said , &quot; we &apos;re going to give you this money .
what are you going to do with this ? &quot;
and his brother said , &quot; i just want to talk to tony again .
i just want to go back to him , and i said , &quot; wait a minute , isn &apos;t that -- i &apos;ve seen stephen hawking -- can &apos;t all the paralyzed people communicate through these devices ? &quot;
and he said , &quot; no , only if you listen to the higher social layer and you have a remarkable insurance , you can really do that .
normal people are not available to these devices . &quot;
and i said , &quot; how do you communicate now ? &quot;
did anybody see the movie &apos; butterfly and diver bell ? &quot;
that &apos;s how they communicate -- that &apos;s how their fingers walk along .
i was like , &quot; very archaic , how can that be ? &quot;
part of the design is to make pieces that are 50 letters long , and that have to overlap with other 50-letter pieces to build smaller sub-units to fit them together .
so i came up with the need to just put out a check , and instead , i put a check that i didn &apos;t have the slightest idea of how to resolve it .
and i committed to his brother and his father , in the words , &quot; well , my proposal is this : tony &apos;s going to speak , we &apos;re going to get him a device , and we &apos;re going to find a way to make his art again .
because it &apos;s a farce that somebody who carries all of this can &apos;t communicate it . &quot;
so i spoke at a conference a few months later .
i met these guys from grl , graffiti research lab , and they have a technology that allows them to project a light on any surface and then draw on it with a laser pointer that only regimes the negative surface .
so they move around and they make art installations like this .
they say that all the things that are shown up there follow a life cycle .
it starts with the sexes , and then the word comes , and then the bush publishing , and then finally , people actually do art .
but there was always a life cycle in their presentations .
so i went home , and i ate with my wife , and i told her about everything , and we thought , &quot; well , wait a second , if there &apos;s this technology that you can use your eyes to control things , we should find a way to tempt a laser to control , so that he can do graffiti again , that would be great . &quot;
we &apos;ve built unique elements here .
that was the beginning of the journey .
and about two years later , about a year later , after a lot of organization and a lot of things , we &apos;ve achieved some things .
first of all , we got the insurance to the doors , and we actually got a device to communicate with -- a stephen hawking machine .
that was incredible .
and he &apos;s really extremely funny -- i call him yoda , because you talk to him , or you get an email , and you think , &quot; i &apos;m so unworthy , this guy is incredible . &quot;
and we also flew seven programmers from all over the world -- literally from all over the world -- home to us .
my wife , my children and i have moved to the garage , and these hackers and programmers and conspiracy theoreticists and archists have taken over our house .
and many of our friends thought that we were pretty stupid to do that , and we came back and all the images on the walls were weighed graffiti .
but for over two weeks , we programmed , we went to the beach promenade in venice , my children were embedded , my dog was also , and we created this .
it &apos;s called eyewriter , and you can see the description .
you may have heard that we &apos;ve put in watermarks .
this is a cheap sunglasses that we bought at the venice beach , some copper wire and some things from the construction market and the electronics trade .
we took a ps3 camera , we put it apart , we put it on a led light , and now we have a device that &apos;s freely available -- you can build it yourself , we provide the code for free , you can download the software for free .
so we &apos;ve created a device that &apos;s completely free of constraints .
no insurance can squeeze .
no hospital .
every paralysis can actually communicate or draw with your eyes alone .
thank you .
thank you very much , that was incredible .
so at the end of the two weeks , we went back to tempt &apos;s room .
i love this picture , because it &apos;s the room of someone else , and this is their room .
think about it : we have a four-letter code : a , c , g and t .
so there &apos;s all this fame before the great unveiling .
and after over a year of planning , two weeks of programming work , nudelparties and nights , tony drew for the first time after seven years .
and this is an amazing picture , because this is his life support system , and he looks beyond his life support system .
we bent his bed up so he can look outside .
we set up a projector against a wall of the parking lot in front of the hospital .
and he drew again for the first time , in both his family and friends -- and you can only imagine what a feeling that was in the parking lot .
we also , funny enough , had to break into the parking lot , so we felt right as part of the spray scene .
in the end , he sent us an email with this content : &quot; for the first time in seven years , i &apos;ve drawn something .
i feel like i was pushed underwater , and finally someone reached down and pulled my head up so i can breathe . &quot;
isn &apos;t that overwhelming ?
triplets of these letters -- these letters code about 20 amino acids ; and there &apos;s a single determination for each of these amino acids .
this is something like our fight cry .
that keeps us at the pole , and it keeps us evolving .
and we still have to make a lot better at this device .
it &apos;s an amazing device , but it &apos;s the same as a magic board .
and someone who has such an artistic potential deserves so much more .
so we &apos;re trying to figure out how to make it better , faster , stronger .
since that time , we &apos;ve received all sorts of recognition .
we won a few prices .
remember , it &apos;s free , none of us deserve it .
it all comes from our own pockets .
so we can use the genetic code to write our words , phrases , thoughts .
so the awards were , &quot; oh , that &apos;s fantastic . &quot;
armstrong twittered over us , and then , in december , the time-magazine honored us as one of the 50 best inventions in 2010 , which was really great .
the coolest part is -- and this closes the whole circle -- that there will be an exhibition in april , in the geffen moca in the inner city of los angeles called &quot; art of the streets . &quot;
and there will be pretty much the toughest representatives in the street art scene -- banksy , shepard fairey , caws -- all these guys will be there .
tempt is going to be part of the show , which is pretty abandoned .
so basically , what i &apos;m talking about is , if you see something that &apos;s impossible , you can do it .
everything in this room was impossible -- this stage , this computer , this microphone , the eyewriter -- everything was impossible at some point .
make it possible -- all of you here .
i &apos;m not a programmer , and i &apos;ve never had anything to do with generic technology , but i &apos;ve just captured something and surrounded myself with amazing people so that we could put something on the legs together .
and that &apos;s the question that every single one of you should be asking yourself , every single day , where you see something that needs to be done , if not now , when ? and if not me , who then ?
we just signed at the beginning .
thank you .
so , i write for children , and i &apos;m probably america &apos;s most common children &apos;s book author .
and i always tell people that i don &apos;t want to get there like a scientist .
you can have me as a farmer , or in leather , but no one has ever chosen farmers .
today , i want to tell you about circles and revelations .
well , an epiphany is usually something that you find because you dropped it somewhere .
you go around the block and you take it as an epiphany .
this is a painting of a circle .
one of my friends did it -- richard bollingbroke .
it &apos;s the kind of complicated circle that i want to tell you about today .
some people were disappointed that it wasn &apos;t poetry .
my circle started back in the &apos; 60s at the high school in stow , ohio , where i was the classroom swamp .
i was the one who was beaten green and blue every week until a teacher saved my life .
she saved my life by letting me use the toilet in the classroom .
that &apos;s what she did secretly .
she did it for three years .
and i had to go out of town .
i had a thumb , i had 85 dollars , and it struck me to san francisco in california -- i found a lover -- and back in the &apos; 80s , i found it important to take a job in aids organizations .
about three or four years ago , i got a call in the middle of the night from this teacher , ms. posten , who said , &quot; i have to see you .
i &apos;m sad that we &apos;ve never met each other as adults .
can you please come to ohio , and please come along with the man i know you &apos;ve found him now .
we built the pieces so that we could just break them down with enzymes , there are enzymes that repair them and put them back together .
and i should mention that i have pancreatic cancer , and i want you to hurry . &quot;
well , the next day we were in cleveland .
we looked at her , we laughed , we cried , and we knew she had to be in a hospice .
we found one for her , we took her , and we took care of her , and we gave her eight to her family because she needed it .
it was something we knew to do .
and just as the woman who wanted to meet me as an adult , met me , she turned into a box of ashes and was put into my hands .
what had happened was that the circle had closed , it had become a circle -- and the revelation that i talked about .
the revelation is that death is part of life .
she saved my life , and my partner and i saved her .
and you know , this part of life needs everything that the rest of life needs .
but at the same time , they had a clear knowledge of the forest that was amazing .
and we started making pieces , starting with pieces that contain five to seven thousand letters , and they put them together to make 24,000-letter pieces to put them back together , up to 72,000 .
it needs truth and beauty , and i &apos;m so glad that this has been mentioned so often today .
he needs the same -- he needs dignity , love and pleasure . and it &apos;s up to us to give these things .
thank you .
imagine a big explosion as you go up to 1,000 meters .
imagine a plane full of smoke .
imagine a power station that makes the clack , the clack , the clack , the clack , the clack , the clack , the clack .
that sounds frightening .
well , i had a unique place that day ; i was sitting on 1d .
i was the only one who could talk to the airplanes .
so i looked at them in a minute , and they said , &quot; no problem , we probably got some birds . &quot;
in every step , we produced these pieces in the surplus so that we could sequence them , because we tried to create a very robust process of what you &apos;re going to see in a minute .
the pilot had already turned the machine , and we weren &apos;t that far away .
you could see manhattan .
two minutes later , three things happened at the same time .
the pilot made the machine after the hudson river .
that &apos;s not usually the route .
he turns off the drives .
imagine a noisy airplane .
and then he said three words -- the most unemotional words i &apos;ve ever heard .
he says , &quot; get ready for the jumping up . &quot;
i didn &apos;t have to talk to the board anymore .
we tried to get to the point of automation .
i could see it in her eyes , and there was some shrimp , and life was over .
now i want to share with you three things that i &apos;ve learned about myself that day .
i learned that , in a moment , everything is different .
we have this life plan , we have these things that we want to do in life , and i thought about all the people that i wanted to pass a hand and didn &apos;t do it , all the fences that i wanted to flick , all the experiences that i wanted to do and never did .
while i was thinking about it later , i noticed a phrase that said , &quot; i &apos;m collecting bad wine . &quot;
because when the wine is there , and the person is there , i open it up .
i never want to change anything in life .
and that urgency , that goal , has really changed my life .
the second thing that i learned that day -- and that was when we were missing the george washington bridge , pretty much around hair -- i thought , man , there &apos;s one thing that i really regret .
i had a good life .
so , this looks like a basketball playoff .
in my own humanity and with my mistakes , i aspired to become better in everything i attacked .
but in my humanity , i also gave my ego space .
and i regretted the time i wasted for meaningless things with people who mean something .
and i thought about the relationship with my wife , to friends , to people .
and after that , when i thought about it , i decided to put negative energy out of my life .
it &apos;s not perfect , but it &apos;s much better .
i didn &apos;t argue with my wife for two years anymore .
it feels great .
i &apos;m not trying to be right anymore ; i &apos;m trying to be happy .
the third thing that i learned -- and that &apos;s when the internal clock begins , &quot; 15 , 14 , 13 , counting down ... &quot;
when we get to these really big pieces -- with over 100,000 base pairs -- they &apos;re not just going to grow in e. coli . it &apos;s going to exceed all the possibilities of modern molecular biology , and so we turned to other mechanisms .
you see the water coming .
i said , &quot; please fly into the air . &quot;
i don &apos;t want this thing to break into 20 pieces , as you know from documentaries .
while we &apos;re falling down , i had this feeling of dying is not terrifying .
it &apos;s almost as if we &apos;re preparing for our lives .
but it was very sad .
i didn &apos;t want to go ; i love my life .
and that sadness really formed in a thought , which is that i wish only one thing .
i just wish i could see my children grow up .
about a month after that , i went to see a show of my daughter -- first graders , not much artistic talent ...
we knew about a mechanism called the homologist recombination that biology uses to repair dna that can assemble these pieces .
... not yet .
and i celebrate , i cry like a little kid .
and in the world , everything made sense to me .
i realized then , by connecting the dots to each other , that life is just about being a great father .
more than anything , everything else , is my only goal in life , to be a good father .
i became part of the miracle , not to die that day .
i got another gift , which is to look into the future , and come back and live differently .
my call to all of you who fly today is : imagine the same thing happening on your flight -- please don &apos;t -- but imagine it ; and how would you change ?
what would you do that you &apos;re going to shoot , because you think you &apos;d be there forever ?
how would you change your relationships and the negative energy in it ?
here &apos;s an example of this . there &apos;s an organism called deinococcus radiodurans , which is three million rays of radiation .
and more than anything , are they the best parents they can only be ?
thank you .
the idea behind the stuxnet computer worm is very simple .
we don &apos;t want iran to build the bomb .
the most important post there for nuclear weapons development is the uranium incentive facility in natance .
the gray boxes you see here , these are real-time control systems .
now , if we manage to combine the systems that are controlling the numbers and controlling the valves , we can actually do a lot of problems with the centrifuge .
these gray boxes don &apos;t run with windows software ; they &apos;re based on a completely different technology .
but if we can do the fact that there &apos;s an effective windows virus on a laptop that &apos;s used by a warning engineer to configure this gray box , we &apos;re in the business .
and that &apos;s the planning behind stuxnet .
you can see in the upper field that his chromosome just falls apart .
so we start with a windows carpet .
the usage data is transferred into the gray box , damaging the centrifuge , and the iranian nuclear energy program is delayed -- it &apos;s performed .
this is a child &apos;s game , right ?
i want to tell you how we found that .
when we started to stuxnet six months ago , it was completely unknown what the purpose and purpose of this construction was .
the only thing we knew was very , very complicated in terms of the windows part , the dropper-part , made by countless cereal use .
and it seemed to have something to do with these gray boxes , these real-time control systems .
this attracted our attention , and we started a lab project where we infected our environment with stuxnet , and we looked at this construct .
and then something weird happened .
stuxnet behaved like a lab rat that didn &apos;t like our cheese -- sniffed it , but didn &apos;t want to eat it .
12 to 24 hours later , it all got together again as it was .
it didn &apos;t make any sense in my eyes .
and after experimenting with different kinds of cheese , i noticed that this is a targeted attack .
completely targeted for a particular goal .
the dropper is active on the gray box , when a special configuration was discovered , even when the special program that it &apos;s trying to infect on this goal .
and if it &apos;s not , then stuxnet doesn &apos;t do anything .
so , this really got my interest , and we started working with this , almost around the clock , because i thought , well , we don &apos;t know what the goal is .
it could be , say , a us-american power plant , or a chemical plant in germany .
so we should soon find out what the goal is .
so we extracted and decomposed the attack code , and we found that it &apos;s built into two digital warheads -- a smaller one and a bigger one .
and we also noticed that they were very professionally constructed by people who obviously had all the insider information available .
we have thousands of organisms that can do that .
they knew all the bits and bytes they had to attack .
they probably even knew the size of the machine operator .
so they knew everything .
and if you &apos;ve already heard that the dropper of stuxnet is complex and high-tech , let me tell you , the usage data is a science for itself .
it &apos;s much more sophisticated than anything we &apos;ve ever seen .
here &apos;s an excerpt from this attack code .
we &apos;re talking about -- about 15,000 lines of code .
it looks pretty much like old-fashioned assembler language .
and i want to tell you how we were able to get smart from this code .
so what we were looking for first was systems function calls , because we know what they &apos;re doing .
their hunters were able to smell the urine of an animal from 40 steps away , and determine what kind of animal was owned by .
these organisms can be completely dry , they can even live in the vacuum .
and then we looked for tickets and data structures and tried to connect them to the real world -- with potential goals in the real world .
so we needed theories about these goals that we could prove or disprove .
in order to make these theories , we remind ourselves that it &apos;s definitely high-graded sabotage , it has to be a high-quality goal , and it &apos;s very likely to be in iran , because it &apos;s where most of the infections have been reported .
well , there are not several thousand goals in this area .
it basically goes out to the hummingbird nuclear power plant and the uranium incentive plant in natance .
so i said to my assistant , &quot; take me a list of all the experts for centrifuge and power plants from our client . &quot;
and i called her up , and i tapped her knowledge to compare her expertise with what we found in the code and in the data .
and that worked very well .
so , we were able to connect the little digital warhead to the rotor controller .
the rotor is this moving part within the centrifuge , this black object that you see .
i &apos;m absolutely sure that life can exist and move in space , looking for aquatic conditions .
and if you manipulate the speed of this rotor , you &apos;re actually able to crack the rotor , and eventually , to explode the centrifuge .
what we also found is that the goal of the attack was actually to make it happen slowly and unsecretly -- obviously in the attempt to make warfare engineers desperate , so they wouldn &apos;t be able to get behind it quickly .
the big digital warhead -- we got a glimpse by looking at very precisely data and data structures .
so , for example , the number 164 is very sticking out of this code ; you can &apos;t overlook it .
i started to work through scientific literature about how these centrifuge are built in natch and found that they were structured in what we call cascades , and every cascade contains 164 centrifuge .
so that made sense , it fit together .
and it got better .
these centrifuge in iran are divided into 15 so-called levels .
and guess what we found in the code of attack ?
it &apos;s an almost identical structure .
in fact , nasa has shown a lot of it out there .
so again , that was really good together .
and this gave us a lot of confidence for what we were looking at here .
well , don &apos;t get me wrong , it didn &apos;t just go like that .
these results were achieved by several weeks of hard work .
and often we just ran into a dead alley and had to recollect us .
anyway , we found that both digital warheads were actually heading for the same goal and the same goal , but from different directions .
the little warhead takes over a cascade , and it turns over the rotors , and slows them down , and the big warhead comes into interaction with six cascades , and manipulates valves .
so , by and large , we &apos;re very confident that we &apos;ve actually determined what the goal is .
it &apos;s sovereignty , and it &apos;s just navy .
so we don &apos;t have to worry that other goals could be hit by stuxnet .
here &apos;s a feature of the molecule that we &apos;ve made using these processes -- actually , we &apos;ve only used yeast mechanisms with the right design of the pieces , we &apos;ve added them in . yeast then automatically put them together .
here &apos;s something really cool about this stuff that we discovered -- it really blew me out of the socks .
there &apos;s the gray box down there , and on the top you see the centrifuge .
now , what this thing does is it captures the inherent values of sensors -- like printing sensors and vibration sensors -- and it provides legitimate code that &apos;s still going on during the attack , with the wrong data .
and in fact , this false data from stuxnet has already taken place .
so it &apos;s just like in hollywood movies , where during the pursuit chase , the surveillance camera is being fed with previously recorded video .
that &apos;s cool , isn &apos;t it ?
the idea here , obviously , is not just the machine operators in the control room .
in fact , it &apos;s much more dangerous and more aggressive .
the idea is to overlist a digital security system .
we need digital security systems where a human machine operator can &apos;t respond fast enough .
this is not an electron microscope , it &apos;s a regular microscope shot .
so in a power station , for example , when the big steam turbine gets too fast , you have to open up discharge valves within a millisecond .
of course , this can &apos;t be done by a human machine leader .
so at this point , we need digital security systems .
and if they &apos;re at risk , really bad things can happen .
the power plant can explode .
and neither the machine leaders , nor the security system , will it notice .
this is scary .
but it gets worse .
and what i &apos;m saying now is very important .
think about it . this attack is generic .
it &apos;s such a big molecule that we can even see it with the light microscope .
it has nothing to do with centrifuge , with uranization .
so for example , he would work as well -- in a power plant , or in a car factory .
it &apos;s generic .
and you don &apos;t have to -- as the attacker -- you don &apos;t have to put the user data on a usb stick , as we &apos;ve seen at stuxnet .
you could also use ordinary worm technology to spread .
you just have to spread it as far as you can .
and when you do that , you end up with a cyber weapon of mass destruction .
that &apos;s the consequence that we have to face .
so unfortunately , the biggest number of goals for these attacks is not in the middle east .
they &apos;re in the united states , europe and japan .
this is a picture of six seconds .
so all these green areas , these are the most ambitious environments .
we have to face the consequences , and we start to prepare better .
thank you .
i have a question .
ralph , a lot of it was reported that people think that the mossad is the main organization behind it .
is that your opinion ?
okay , you really want to know that ?
yeah . okay .
i think the mossad is involved , but the driving force is not israel .
so the driving force behind that is the cyber superpower .
this is the publication that we just recently completed .
there &apos;s only one , and that &apos;s the united states -- fortunately , luckily .
because otherwise , our problem would be even bigger .
thank you for hunting us a fear of height . thank you ralph .
i &apos;ve spent the last couple of years putting myself in situations that are usually very difficult and kind of dangerous at the same time .
i went to jail -- difficult .
i worked in a coal mining -- dangerous .
i filmed in warfare -- difficult and dangerous .
and i spent 30 days eating nothing but this -- fun at the beginning , a little bit difficult in the middle , very dangerous at the end .
in fact , i &apos;ve been exposed to most of my career to the appearance of terrible situations , and to try to study all of this in a social way that they &apos;re engaging and interesting , and hopefully to understand in a way that makes them fun and accessible to the audience .
so when i knew i was going to come here to look at the world of branding and sponsoring in a tedtalk , i knew i was going to do something a little different .
this is over 580,000 letters of genetic code , and it &apos;s the largest molecule with defined structure that has ever been created by humans .
some of you may have heard that i turned an ad on ebay a few weeks ago .
i sent some facebook messages , some twitter messages , and i gave people the opportunity to get the name rights of my tedtalk in 2011 .
in fact , some happy people and companies , for-profit and non-profit , got the unique opportunity -- because i &apos;m sure chris anderson will never let that go -- buy the name rights on the talk that you just see , which at the time didn &apos;t have a title or a lot of content and didn &apos;t give a lot of clues about what the topic would actually be .
so what you got was this : your name presents here : my tedtalk , which you have no idea what the topic is going to be , and that could fly around your ears after content , especially if i let your company stand stupid for your participation .
but besides that , it &apos;s a very good media opportunity .
do you know how many people look at these tedtalks ?
a lot .
this is just the titles , by the way .
so despite that warning , i knew that anybody would buy the name rights .
now , if you had asked me this a year ago , i wouldn &apos;t have been able to tell you this with certainty .
it has a molecular weight of over 300 million .
but in the new project that i &apos;m working on , my new film , we &apos;re looking at the world of marketing , of advertising .
as i said , over the years , i &apos;ve been in some pretty horrible situations , but nothing could prepare me , nothing could arrest me , to go to something as difficult and as dangerous as these guys go into a room .
you know , i had the idea for a movie .
what i want to do is make a film around product placement , marketing and advertising , where the whole film is funded by product placement , marketing and advertising .
and the film will be called &quot; the greatest movie ever sold . &quot;
so what &apos;s happening in &quot; the greatest movie ever sold , &quot; is that everything from the top to the bottom , from the beginning to the end , is completely labeled with brands -- from the cover sponsor that you &apos;re going to see in the movie , this is the brand x .
now this brand , the qualcomm stadium , the staples center ...
these people will be connected to the film in eternity forever .
and so the film will study this whole idea -- this is what ? in eternity , forever ?
i &apos;m a redundant person .
in the early &apos; 80s , i got a really amazing task when my professor at harvard asked me if i was interested in going to haiti and infiltrating the secret societies that were the foundation of the strength of duvalier and tonton macoutes and the poison that was used to make zombies secure .
if we were to print it with the size of 10 and without distances , it would include 142 pages just to print this genetic code .
that was more to emphasize .
it was &quot; in eternity , forever . &quot;
but we &apos;re not just going to have the x as a title sponsor , but we &apos;re going to make sure that we &apos;re going to sell every possible category in the movie .
so we might sell a shoe , and it will be the greatest shoe you &apos;ve ever worn ...
the greatest car you &apos;ve ever driven , from &quot; the greatest film ever sold , &quot; the greatest drink you &apos;ve ever had , is a attention from &quot; the greatest film ever ever sold . &quot;
so the idea is , besides showing that brands are part of life , actually , to get them to fund the film ?
and we actually show the whole process of how it works .
the goal of the whole film is transparency .
you &apos;re going to see the whole thing in the movie of statements .
so that &apos;s the whole concept , the whole movie , from beginning to end .
now , how do we start a chromosome ? how do we activate it ?
and i would be delighted to help ceg do this .
you know , it &apos;s funny , because when i first heard it , it &apos;s the ultimate respect for the audience .
but i don &apos;t know how conception people will be .
do you have a perspective -- i don &apos;t want to use &quot; perspective , &quot; because that has a negative connotation -- but do you know how this is going to evolve ?
how much money is needed to realize that ?
1.5 million .
i think it &apos;s hard to meet them , but i think it &apos;s worth addressing some really familiar brands .
who knows when the film comes out , we might look like a horde vollidiot .
what do you think the answer will be ?
the answer will be very likely to be no .
obviously , it &apos;s very simple with a virus . it &apos;s much more complicated to deal with bacteria .
but is it a difficult thing to do because of the film or a difficult thing for me ?
jk : both .
... so , not so optimistic .
so , sir , can you help me ? i need help .
i can help .
okay .
fantastic .
we need to think about the brands .
yes .
if you look at the people that you have to do it with ...
it &apos;s as simple when you do it in eukaryonts as we are , you just take out the nucleus and you put another in it , and that &apos;s exactly what you &apos;ve all heard about the cloning .
there are some places that we can turn to .
put the camera in .
i thought , &quot; put the camera out &quot; would mean that we wanted to have a background conversation .
it turns out it really meant , &quot; we don &apos;t want to have anything to do with your movie . &quot;
and just so all these companies disappeared , one after the other .
no one wanted to have anything to do with the film .
i was amazed .
they wanted to have absolutely nothing to do with the project .
and i was confused , because i thought the whole concept of advertising was to present your product as many people as possible , let it see as many people as possible .
especially in today &apos;s world , in this intersection of new and old media and the fragmented media landscape -- it &apos;s not the idea of being in this exciting new medium that the masses bring this message .
in archaebacteria , the chromosome is integrated into the cell , but recently we &apos;ve shown that you can take a complete transplant of a chromosome from one cell to the other and activate it .
no , that &apos;s what i thought .
but you see , the problem was that my idea had a fatal error , and that was the following .
in fact , no , that wasn &apos;t the mistake at all .
that wouldn &apos;t have been a problem at all .
that would have been okay .
but what this picture is for is a problem .
you see , if you type in transparency in google search , this is -- this is one of the first images that appears .
i really like your kind , sergey brin . now .
that was the problem : transparency -- free of deception and clothes , just to discover and see through , instantly , characterized by visibility and access to information , especially in terms of business practices -- the last line is certainly the biggest problem .
you know , we &apos;re hearing a lot about transparency right now .
we cleaned up the chromosome of a microbial species , and basically , these two are as far apart as humans and mice , and we gave some extra genes to try to pick this chromosome , and we decomposed it with enzymes to destroy all the proteins , and it was very amazing when we put it in a cell -- and they will estimate our very sophisticated graphs here .
our politicians say it , our president says it , even our ceos say it .
but when it comes to the point that it &apos;s supposed to be implemented , something changes .
but why ? well , transparency is frightening -- like this strange bear that still breaks .
it &apos;s unpredictable -- like this strange highway .
and it &apos;s also very risky .
what else is risky ?
a whole dish of cool whip food .
this is very risky .
so when i started talking to the companies and telling them that we wanted to tell this story , they said , &quot; no , we want you to tell a story .
we want you to tell a story , but we just want you to tell our story . &quot;
the new chromosome went into the cell .
you see , when i was a kid , and my father got me lying -- and he &apos;s sitting there looking at me -- he would say , &quot; my son , there are three versions in every story .
there &apos;s your version , there &apos;s my version , and there &apos;s the real version . &quot;
so you see , with this film , we wanted to tell the real version .
but because only one company , an agency was willing to help us -- and that &apos;s because i know john bond and richard kirshen tree for years -- i realized that i had to do it alone , i had to go around the middle man and go right to the companies with my team .
so what they suddenly started to understand -- or what i started to understand -- was that when you start talking to these companies , the idea of how your brand is understood is a profound problem .
i have friends making big , gigantic hollywood movies , and i have friends making little independent movies like me .
and my friends , the big , gigantic hollywood movies , say that the reason their films are so successful is because of the brand partners they have .
and then my friends who make little independent movies say , &quot; well , how do we compete with these big , gigantic hollywood movies ? &quot;
and the movie is called &quot; the greatest movie ever sold . &quot;
so how exactly are we going to see ban in the movie ?
in fact , we thought that this was the end , but we tried to bring the process a little bit further .
every time i go on my way , and every time i open the medical closet , you &apos;ll see ban deodorant .
and every time i interview someone , i can say , &quot; are you fresh enough for this interview ?
are they there ? they look a little nervous .
i want to help you calm down .
so maybe before the interview , you should have a little bit of this . &quot;
and then we offer one of these great dunes .
either &quot; floral fusion &quot; or &quot; paradise winds , &quot; you &apos;ll have a choice .
we &apos;re going to be equipped both for men and for women -- solid , roll-on , or a stick , whatever .
that &apos;s the short socket .
now , i can answer all of your questions and give you an exquisite solicitation .
this is the main mechanism of evolution here .
we &apos;re a smaller brand .
as you &apos;ve talked about the smaller movies , we &apos;re a challenge as a brand .
so we don &apos;t have a budget like other brands .
so doing things like this -- you know , reminds people of ban -- that &apos;s kind of why we &apos;re interested in this .
what words would you describe as ban ?
ban is blank .
that &apos;s a great question .
superior technology .
technology is not the way you should describe something that someone is doing under the axes .
we &apos;re talking about bold , fresh .
we find all sorts of species here that have taken a second chromosome or a third of somewhere , every time thousands of characteristics add to a species in just a second .
i think &quot; fresh &quot; is a great word that this category really makes something positive , as opposed to &quot; fighting smell and humidity . &quot;
it keeps you fresh .
how can we keep them fresh longer -- better fresh , more fresh , three times more fresh .
these things have a more positive effect .
and this is a million-dollar company .
what about me ? what about the printing stype ?
i have to talk to the man on the street , who are like me , otto normal consumers .
i want you to tell me something about my brand .
how would you describe your brand ?
well , my brand ?
to make sense of this sensation , of course , i had to know something about this remarkable belief of the vodoun , and voodoo is not a cult of the black magic .
so people who think of evolution as a gene that is changed at a time , have missed a lot of biology .
i don &apos;t know .
i really like beautiful clothes .
1980s , revival hits skate points , except on the wash day .
all right , what is the brand gerry ?
unique .
i think the genre , the style i have , is probably the dark glamour .
i like a lot of black colors , a lot of gray sounds and stuff like that .
but i usually have an accessoire , like sunglasses , or a jewelry and stuff like that .
if dan were a brand , he would probably be a classic mercedes cabrio .
the brand that i am is , i would say , lousy fly .
there are enzymes that are called restriction enzymes that actually digest dna .
woman 2 : partly hippie , partly yogi , partly brooklyn-girls -- i don &apos;t know .
man 3 : i &apos;m the schmuseum guy .
i sell museum animals all over the country , all over the world .
so i think that &apos;s my brand .
this is my brand in my little , distorted industry .
man 4 : my brand is fedex , because i was exposed .
man 5 : brand failed alcohol addicted to writing .
is this going on ?
lawyer : i &apos;m a lawyer &apos;s brand .
i &apos;m tom .
the chromosome that was in the cell doesn &apos;t have any ; the chromosomes that we &apos;ve added in .
well , we can &apos;t all be the tom-brand , but i often see myself in the interface of dark glamour and a common fly .
and what happened was that i needed an expert .
i needed someone who could invade my head , somebody who could really help me understand what &apos;s called the &quot; brand personality . &quot;
and so i found a company called olson zaltman in pittsburg .
they &apos;ve helped companies like nestles , febreze , hallmark to discover this brand personality .
if they could do it for those , they could certainly help me .
you brought your images , right ?
this is me . the first picture is a picture of my family .
just tell me a little bit about how that connects to your thoughts and feelings about you .
these are the people who are shaping my worldview .
it was expressed in the cell , and it recognized the other chromosome as a foreign material , and so we ended up with only one cell with a new chromosome .
tell me about this world .
md : this world ? i think your own world is the world that you live in -- like people around you , the friends , the family , the way you live your life , the work and so on .
all of these things come in and start from a place , and for me , they start with my family in west virginia .
what &apos;s the next thing you want to talk about .
the next one . this was the most beautiful day of my life .
what is the context of this with the thoughts and feelings about yourself ?
it &apos;s the way i &apos;d like to be .
i like things that are different .
i like things that are weird . i like weird things .
tell me about the &quot; why &quot; phase -- what is it doing to us ?
it stained blue because of the genes that we had added in .
what &apos;s the machete ? what puppet stage are you in right now ?
why is it important to reboot ? what is the red ?
tell me a little bit about this part .
a little bit more about you , which is not you .
what other metamorphosis have you gone through ?
... that doesn &apos;t have to be afraid . what kind of rollercoaster are you in ?
eeeeee ! no , thank you .
thank you very much for your patience .
yeah . all right .
yes , i don &apos;t know what it &apos;s going to be .
and after a very short period of time , it had lost all the characteristics of the species and completely converted into a new species based on the new software that we put into the cell .
there were a lot of crazy things going on .
the first thing i saw was this idea that their brand personality has two separate , but it has supplementary pages -- the morgan spurlock brand is an 80-pound brand .
they &apos;re doing very well .
and i think there &apos;s almost a contradiction with that .
and i think some companies will only focus on one strength , rather than on both of them .
a lot of companies tend to -- and this is human nature -- avoid things that they &apos;re not sure of , they &apos;re going to be afraid , they &apos;re going to be avoiding these elements , and they &apos;re going to be willing to come , and they &apos;re actually going to turn them into something positive for themselves , and that &apos;s a deceptive chess .
what other brands do ?
the first is a classic apple .
and you can also see it here , target , wii , mini of mini coopers and jetblue .
well , there are brand and mindful brands , these things that come and go , but a negotiation , eight brands is a pretty strong thing .
all the proteins changed the membranes -- when we read the genetic code , it was exactly what we transferred .
an eighth , playful brand . how is your brand ?
if someone asked you to describe your brand identity , your brand personality , how would it be ?
do you have an up-breathing ? are you something that &apos;s going to bring blood to whales ?
or are they more like a down attribute ?
are you something a little bit quieter , reservative , conservative ?
up-attribute are things that are playful , fresh like the fresh prince , time-consumed , adventurous , outlanded and lovely like erol flynn , agile , professional , glorious , magical and mystical like gandalf .
or are they more like a down attribute ?
are they mindful and monsoon like 007 ?
are they established , traditionally , nurturing , protecting , compassionate like oprah ?
are they reliable , stable , family , safe , born , holy , considerable , considerable , and the dalai lama or yoda ?
it may sound like genomic alchimie , but we can , by changing the software dna , change things quite dramatically .
in the course of the film , we had over 500 companies that were up and down companies that said no , because they didn &apos;t want to be part of the project .
they didn &apos;t want to have anything to do with this film , because they had no control , no control over the finished product .
but it &apos;s going to be found 17 brand partners who were willing to give up on this control , who wanted to do business with someone as mindful and as i do , and who eventually enabled us to tell stories that we wouldn &apos;t usually have told -- stories that a advertising would never support .
they enabled us to tell the story of neuromarketing , as we tell the story in this film , that we use mris today to help us tackle the functions of the brain , both to make advertising and to make movies .
we went to sao paulo , where foreign advertising was banned .
in the entire city , for five years , there &apos;s no sign , no poster , no flyer , nothing .
and we drove in school districts where companies are getting their way to impoverished schools all over america .
the incredible thing for me is that the projects that i got the most feedback from , or where i got the biggest success , are the ones where i interacted with things directly .
and that &apos;s what these brands have done .
because they went around the middle man , they went around the agencies , and they said that the agencies might not really have their interest in their mind .
now i &apos;ve argued that this is not the genesis -- this is based on 3.5 billion years of evolution .
i &apos;m going to negotiate with the artist directly .
i &apos;m going to work with him and create something completely different , something that makes people think that our worldview is challenging .
and how was that for you ? what was it successful ?
now , since the sundance film had premiere , we can look at it .
according to burglar , the premiere was in january , and since then -- and this is not even the whole thing -- there were 900 million calls from this film .
it &apos;s actually just a two-and-a-half week period .
this is just online -- no press , no television .
the film hasn &apos;t been delivered yet .
it &apos;s not even online . it &apos;s not streaming .
he hasn &apos;t come out in other countries yet .
and i &apos;ve argued that we may be creating a new kind of cambrian explosion , where there may be massive new education based on this digital design .
well , after all , the film got a very big momentum .
and this is not bad for a project where almost every advertising agency that we talked to has recommended their clients to let their fingers go .
one of the things that i believe in is that when you take your chance , you take risks , you put opportunities in those risks .
i think if you keep people out of it , you get them closer to failure .
i think that if you &apos;re training your employees to avoid risk , you &apos;re preparing the whole company to get a profit .
i feel like we have to encourage people to take risks when they &apos;re going forward .
we need to encourage people not to be afraid of opportunities that might scare them .
finally , when we move forward , we should welcome the fear .
we should put the bear in the cage .
welcome the fear . welcome the risk .
on the contrary , it &apos;s a complex metaphysical view of the world .
why should we do that ?
it &apos;s a big spoon full of each , so we welcome the risk .
and finally , we should welcome transparency .
today , more than ever , a little bit of honesty takes us very far .
and that said , with honesty and transparency , my whole talk , &quot; welcome transparency , &quot; they were presented by my good friends of emc , who paid $ 7100 for the name rights of ebay .
big data is transformed for organizations around the world into big opportunities .
emc presents &quot; welcome transparency . &quot;
thank you .
now , morgan , on behalf of transparency , this is what happened to the $ 7100 ?
that &apos;s a great question .
i &apos;ve put a check in my pocket , put it on the top of the ted organization , the sapling foundation -- a $ 7100 check to fund my ted performance in the next year .
i think it &apos;s pretty obvious in terms of what we need .
my name is amit .
18 months ago , i did something else at google , and i started doing something with museums and art , and my boss , who is today , gave me a green light .
and it took 18 months .
a lot of fun negotiations and stories , i can tell you , with 17 very interesting museums from nine countries .
but i &apos;m going to focus on the demonstration .
there &apos;s a lot of stories about why we &apos;ve done this .
i think my personal view is very easy to explain with this slide and access to it .
i grew up in india .
i became a great education -- i didn &apos;t complain -- but i had too many museums and these works of art that i had no access to .
and when i went to visit these museums , i started to learn a lot .
we &apos;ve grown from six and a half to nine billion people in the next 40 years .
and while i was working for google , i was trying to make this desire -- to make art more accessible -- with technology .
we then created a team , a great team , and we started with this .
i &apos;m going to start with the demonstration , and tell you some interesting things that happened since the launch .
so you just go to google project.com .
you can look around all these museums here .
there &apos;s the uffizi , the moma , the hermitage , the rijks , the van gogh .
i even come to one of my favorite , the metropolitan museum of art in new york .
you come in two ways -- very simple .
click , and wumms , you &apos;re in this museum .
it doesn &apos;t matter where you are -- bombay , mexico , it doesn &apos;t matter .
to put it in my context , i was born in 1946 .
you go around and you amuse yourself .
you want to orient in the museum ?
open the map , and jump with a click .
they &apos;re in there , they want to go to the end of the gang .
just on . lots of fun .
poke them .
thank you , but the best is still coming .
so now i &apos;m in front of one of my favorite images , harvest workers from pieter breugel in the met .
i see this plusb sign .
when the museum gave us the picture , they click on it .
today , three people on this planet are for everyone who &apos;s existed in 1946 ; within 40 years , it &apos;s going to be four .
so this is one of the images .
this is all metadata .
those of you who are really interested in art can click here -- but i &apos;m going to click this away now .
this is one of the images we &apos;ve captured with the so-called gigapix technology .
for example , this picture has about 10 billion points of imagery , i think .
and a lot of people ask me , &quot; what do you get for 10 billion points of imagery ? &quot;
i &apos;m going to show you this .
you can zoom in very easily and out .
you see something fun here .
i love this guy ; his expression is unaffordable .
we have problems with food , with fresh and clean water , medicine , for 6.5 billion people .
but then you really want to go deep inside .
and so i started playing around , and i found that something was going on there .
and i thought , &quot; wait a minute , that sounds interesting . &quot;
i went close , and i slowly noticed that these kids actually beat .
i did a little bit of research , and i spoke to some of the known people at met , and i actually found out that it was a game called squail , where a gans is beaten with a stick on the fast tuesday .
it seemed to be quite popular .
i don &apos;t know why they did it , but i learned something about it .
to really get close to it , you can go up to the cracks .
just to give you the overview , i zoom out so you can see what you get .
here we were , and this is the painting .
it &apos;s going to be a challenge for nine .
but the best part is -- in a second .
let &apos;s jump quickly to moma , again in new york .
another favorite picture of me , star night .
the previous example was about finding detail .
but what if you want to see the paintbrush stroke ?
and what only when you want to see van gogh making this masterpiece ?
you zoomed in . you can really go in .
i &apos;m going to zoom in on one of my favorite parts of this picture until i &apos;m really in the cracks .
this is star night , probably never seen before .
now i &apos;m going to show you my favorite function .
we need over five billion tons of coal , 30-plus billion barrels of oil , which is a hundred million barrels a day .
there are many more , but i don &apos;t have time .
that &apos;s the really cool part , it &apos;s called collections .
every one of you , every -- if rich or poor , if you have a great house -- doesn &apos;t matter .
you can go and create your own museum online -- from all these images , you can put your own collection .
it &apos;s very simple , you go in -- and i &apos;ve created this , it &apos;s called the power of the zoom -- you can zoom around .
this is &quot; the donors , &quot; in the nationalgia .
you can see everything with remarks , send your friends , and so you can start talking about what you feel when you look at these masterpieces .
i think , finally , to me , the main thing is that all the wonderful things aren &apos;t coming from google here .
they don &apos;t even come from the museums , i think .
maybe i shouldn &apos;t say that .
if we think about biological processes , or any process to replace that , it &apos;s going to be a huge challenge .
they come from the artists .
and that was an experience of humility for me .
i mean , i hope that we &apos;re going to talk to this digital medium of art and represent it online properly .
and the biggest question i get asked recently is , &quot; did you do this to replicate the experience of a museum visit ? &quot;
the answer to that is no .
it &apos;s to add the experience .
that &apos;s what it &apos;s about . thank you .
thank you .
this is a representation of your brain . your brain can be divided into two halves .
that &apos;s the left half , which is the logical side , and then the right half , which is the intuitive side .
then , of course , there &apos;s all the co2 from this material that ends up in the atmosphere .
if we had a scale to measure the aptitute of every hemisphere , we could represent your brain .
for example , this would be somebody who &apos;s completely logical .
this would be somebody who &apos;s completely intuitive .
now , where would you put your brain on this scale ?
some of us may have decided for one of these extreme , but i think , for most people in the audience , your brain looks something like this -- with a high aptitute , which is in both hemispheres at the same time .
it &apos;s not like they &apos;re both exclusive or something like that .
they can be logical and intuitive .
and so i think of myself as one of the people , along with most other experimental quantum physicists , who need a good percentage of logic to put the complex ideas together .
but at the same time , we need a good percentage of intuition to actually execute the experiments .
how do we develop this intuition ? well , we love to play with things .
it &apos;s interesting .
we now , from our discoveries around the world , have a database of about 20 million genes , and i want to believe that these are the design components of the future .
so we go out and play with it , and then we look at how it reacts , and then we start to develop our intuition there .
they basically do the same thing .
so one of the intuitions that they &apos;ve developed over the years is probably that one thing can only be in one place at the same time .
i mean , it can sound strange to think that one thing at the same time is in two different places , but they were not born with this idea , they developed it .
i remember seeing a child playing on a floor threshold .
he was a little kid , and he wasn &apos;t very good at it , and he was falling all the time .
but i bet that play with the ground threshold taught him a very valuable lesson , which is that the big things don &apos;t just let you through , and they stay in a place .
and this is a great conceptual model of the world , as long as you &apos;re not a particle physicist .
it would be a terrible model for a particle physicist , because they don &apos;t play with groundbreaking , but they play with these little strange particles .
and when they play with their particles , they find all kinds of weird things -- how they fly directly through walls , or that they can be in two different places at the same time .
the electronics industry had a dozen components , and look at the diversity that came out of it .
and so they wrote down all these observations , and they called the theory of quantum mechanics .
this was the state of physics a few years ago ; it took quantum mechanics to describe the little , tiny particles .
but you didn &apos;t need them to describe the great everyday objects around us .
that didn &apos;t like my intuition , and maybe just because i don &apos;t play with particles so often .
well , i sometimes play with them , but not very often .
and i &apos;ve never seen them .
i mean , nobody has ever seen a particle .
but my logical side didn &apos;t like it either .
because if all things are made of particles , and all these particles follow the rules of quantum mechanics , shouldn &apos;t it just follow the rules of quantum mechanics ?
i don &apos;t see a reason why it shouldn &apos;t be .
and we &apos;re basically pushing the boundaries of biological reality , and the ones of our imagination .
so i would feel better about the whole thing , if we could kind of show that everyday objects also follow the rules of quantum mechanics .
so , a few years ago , i started doing exactly that .
i created one .
this is the first object you can see , which was in the quantum mechanical superposition .
so what we &apos;re looking at here is a tiny computer chip .
and you can see this green dot there in the middle .
this is the piece of metal that i &apos;m going to talk about in a moment .
this is a picture of the object .
here i &apos;m going to make it bigger . we &apos;re looking right at the center right here .
and here &apos;s a really big close-up of this little piece of metal .
we have technologies today because of these fast syntheses to do what we call combinatorial genetics .
so what we &apos;re looking at is a little piece of metal , it &apos;s shaped like a springboard , and it &apos;s over the edge .
so i did this thing in a similar way that you make a computer chip .
i went to a clean room with new silicon slices , and i replaced it for 100 hours on all the big devices .
for the last bit , i had to build my own machine -- to get this like a swimming pool shaped hole and the thing .
this thing has the ability to be in the quantum mechanical superposition , but it takes a little bit of help to do it .
look , let me give you an analogy .
you know how uncomfortable it is to be in a full elevator ?
i mean , when i &apos;m alone in the elevator , i do all kinds of weird things , but then other people go up , and i &apos;m listening to all these things because i don &apos;t want to hurt them with it , or , frankly , they go away .
so quantum mechanics says that unmovable objects feel the same way .
the fellow drivers for intractable objects are not just humans , but also the light that shines on them and the wind that passes on them and the heat of the space .
we now have the ability to build a large robot that can make millions of chromosomes a day .
and so we knew that if we wanted to see that this piece of metal behaves quantum mechanically , we had to throw out all the passengers .
and then we did .
we turned off the light , we put it in a vacuum , and we sucked out all the air , and we cooled it up to almost now , just in the elevator , the piece of metal was free to behave as it always wanted .
so we measured his movement .
and we found that it really moves odd .
instead of just being quiet there , it vibrated . the way it vibrated was kind of like this -- like a stretching and coherent bubble balg .
by giving him a little push , we were able to vibrate it at the same time and not vibrate -- something that &apos;s only allowed in the quantum mechanics .
so what i &apos;m going to tell you is something really fantastic .
what does it mean to vibrate and vibrate an object at the same time ?
let &apos;s think about the atoms .
if you can imagine making these 20 million different genes , or optimizing these processes to make octanium , or new vaccines , we can change more molecular biology with a small team than the last 20 years of science .
so the first case : all the trillions of atoms that make up the piece of metal are still there , and at the same time , the same atoms are moving up and down .
just to precise time points , they agree .
for the rest of the time , they &apos;re dolphin .
that means that each atom at the same time is in two different places , which at the same time means that the whole piece of metal is in two different places .
i think that &apos;s really cool .
really .
that was worth locking in the clean room for all this year , because , if you look at this , the difference between a single atom and this piece of metal is about the same as the difference between the piece of metal and you .
so if a single atom can be in two different places at the same time , this piece of metal can be in two different places , why not you ?
i mean , that &apos;s just what my logical side says .
so , imagine if you were at the same time in multiple places , how would that feel ?
and it &apos;s just selection . we can select for life &apos;s ability to make chemicals or fuel production vaccine production and so on .
how would your consciousness deal with your body being delocalized in space ?
there &apos;s another aspect to history .
when we warmed it up , turned on the lights and looked in the box , we saw that the piece of metal was always there in a piece .
and so , i had to develop this new intuition that it looks like all the objects in the elevator are actually just aggregated objects that are made together in a small room .
you hear a lot of talk about how quantum mechanics says that everything is connected to everything .
well , that &apos;s not quite right .
there &apos;s more to it . it &apos;s even deeper .
it &apos;s like these connections , their connections with all the things around them , literally define who they are , and that &apos;s the profound and strange of quantum mechanics .
thank you .
in 2007 , i decided that we should reconceptualize how we think about economic development .
this is a photograph of actual design software that we &apos;re working with that you actually sit down and design new species on the computer .
it should be our goal that if families think about where they live and work , they have given the opportunity to choose between at least one hand of all kinds of different cities that are all in competition for new residents .
we &apos;re at the moment far from this goal .
there are billions of people in the developing world who are not even providing a single city that they would welcome .
but the amazing thing about cities is that they &apos;re so much more valuable than it costs them to build .
so we could be very simple with the world , maybe even hundreds of new cities .
now this may sound absurd for you , as far as you &apos;ve never thought about new cities .
i mean , just swap out the building of apartments for the cities .
imagine half of the people who want to live in apartments are already doing this , but the other half are not yet .
they could try to expand the capacity of the existing apartments .
but you know what they would get into , in these apartments and their surroundings , they would be able to avoid and distract from the output .
you know , we don &apos;t necessarily know what it &apos;s going to look like . we know exactly what the genetic code is going to look like .
so it turns out to be very difficult to get into all of these extensions .
but you could go to a whole new place , build a whole new block of housing , provided the laws there would support this kind of building and not prevent it .
so i proposed that governments are creating new surfaces that are providing enough space for a city and giving them a name : charter cities .
i found out later that about the same time , jafour and octavio have thought about the challenge of reform in honduras .
they knew that every year , about 75,000 hondurans left their country to go to the united states , and they wanted to know what they could do to make sure that these people could stay in their country and be able to do exactly the same thing in honduras .
at this point , jafour said to octavio , &quot; what happens if we take an undefeated surface of our country -- what if we just give it a message -- a part of the american embassy , a part of the canadian bottleneck , and if people want to go to work under the canadian rules or the united states , can they work there , and can do everything that they usually have to go to canada or america ? &quot;
in the summer of 2009 , honduras suffered from a severe constituency crisis .
in the next planned elections , pepe lobo won in a turnaround that program promised both innovations and lightning .
he asked octavio to become his stable chef .
in the meantime , i was preparing for a talk at tedglobal .
we &apos;re now focusing on the fourth generation fuels .
through improvement , through trial and by studying consumers , i &apos;ve tried to reduce this complicated concept of charter city to the basic elements .
the first point is the importance of laws , laws that determine that you can &apos;t disturb existing housing owners .
we &apos;re giving great attention to new technologies , but for progress , it needs technologies and laws , and it &apos;s usually laws that keep us back .
in the fall of 2010 , a friend from guatemala octavio sent the link to the tedtalk .
he showed him jafour , again .
they called me up .
and they said , &quot; let &apos;s present this to the chairman of our country ! &quot;
so we met in december in the meeting room of a hotel in miami .
i &apos;ve tried to make it clear how valuable cities are to how much more valuable they are than they cost .
and i &apos;ve used this graph to show how valuable rohland is in a place like new york , and remember that in some cases , a surface is worth thousands of dollars per square meter .
we have to deal with the unstoppable separation of death , and so it shouldn &apos;t surprise us that we all sing , dancing and art .
if i asked you to count the great world religions , what would you say ?
you &apos;ve seen corn to ethanol recently , which is just a bad experiment .
but it was a pretty abstract discussion , in a place when there was a pause , octavio said , &quot; paul , maybe we could look at the tedtalk . &quot;
so the tedtalk was represented in a very simple form that a charter city is a place whose initially uninhabited country , a founding contract that determines the laws that are there , and gives people the opportunity to decide , either to live under those rules or not .
that &apos;s why i was asked by the president of honduras , who said that we have to do this project , that it &apos;s important , and that this is the way we &apos;re going to move our country forward .
i was asked to come to tegucigalpa and give a talk on the fourth and the fifth of january .
so , i gave another one with the facts filled talk , which included a graph like this , which tries to illustrate that if you want to create a lot of value in a city , it has to be a very big city .
this is a picture of the city of denver , and the sketch is the new airport that was built in denver .
this airport alone has a surface of 100 square kilometers .
so i &apos;ve tried to convince the hondurans , if you want to build a new city , you have to start with an area of at least 1,000 square kilometers .
that &apos;s more than 250 thousand acres .
politely , everybody applauded .
we have fuels of the second and third generation that will come out relatively soon , that will have much higher sugar value , like octanium or different kinds of butanol .
the audience &apos;s faces were very serious and alert .
the head of congress came on the stage and said , &quot; professor romer , thank you very much for your talk , but maybe we could look at the tedtalk .
i have it here on my laptop . &quot;
so i sat down , and they played the tedtalk .
and i &apos;ve come to the core point that a new city offers new possibilities to people .
there would be the opportunity to live in a city that would be in honduras , instead of hundreds of miles away in the north .
and a new city also includes new possibilities for leaders .
the government leaders in honduras would be based on the help of partnerships , they could benefit from their partnerships countries , which they would be supporting in the legislation of this charter , and in the execution , that everybody can trust that the charter is actually being done .
and the realization of president lobo was that the certainty of the translation that i &apos;ve been thinking about as a way to get the foreign investors to come and build this city could be equal to all the parties in honduras that have been suffering from fear and mistrust for many years .
we went into an area .
but , as we think , the only way that biology is going to have a huge impact on the cost of food or the limitation of its availability is by looking at co2 as a starting material , and that &apos;s why we &apos;re working on cells that go this way .
this picture is from this place .
it &apos;s effortlessly a thousand square miles .
and shortly after , on january 19th , they voted to congress for a change in the constitution to have a constitutional regulation that is reliable for special development areas .
in a country that has just been a major crisis , in which congress has been elected for this comprehension change at 124 to a voice .
all the parties , all the fractions of the society , supported this .
in order to be part of the constitution , it has to be approved twice by congress .
on february 17th , for the second time , it was approved with 114 to a voice .
immediately after this election , between the 21st and the 24th of february , a delegation of about 30 famines went to the two places in the world that were most interested in getting into the business of the city building .
one place is south korea .
this is a picture of a big , new urban center built in south korea , big than the city center of bostons .
and we think we &apos;re going to be the first generation &apos;s fuels in about 18 months .
everything you can see in this picture was built within four years , after it took four years to get the permits .
the other place that was very interested in building the city is singapore .
it &apos;s already been built two cities in china , and the third one is in preparation .
so if you think about it practically , it &apos;s where we are today .
you already have a building site , and you already consider this area for the second city .
it &apos;s already working on a legal system that allows managers to participate , and it &apos;s also working on an external legal system .
a country has already offered to provide its supreme court , as a court for the disposal of the legal system there .
also , urban designers and builders are very interested .
they even bring in funding .
one thing , as you know , was explained , there are a lot of rents .
sunlight and co2 are a method .
there are a lot of businesses that would like to be in america , especially in a place with a free trade zone , and there are a lot of people who would like to live there .
all over the world , there are 700 million people who say they want to live in a different place all the time .
a million people leave latin america every year and go to the united states .
many of them are fathers who are forced to leave their families to look for work -- sometimes they are single mothers who have to make enough money to afford food and clothes .
unfortunately , sometimes even children who are trying to find their parents that they , in some cases , haven &apos;t seen for a decade .
so what is it for an idea to think about this in honduras to build a whole new city ?
or even building stupid of these cities , or distributing hundreds around the world ?
so what is it for an idea to insist that every family has a choice between several cities that compete for new residents ?
that &apos;s an idea worth spreading .
my friends from honduras asked me to say , thank you ted .
but in our discovery of the world , we have all kinds of different ways .
do you know how many decisions you make on a typical day ?
do you know how many decisions you make in a typical week ?
i &apos;ve recently done a survey with over 2,000 americans , and the average number of decisions that make a typical american in one day is 70 .
moreover , a study was done with ceos recently , where they watched the ceos for a week .
and these scientists have just documented the different topics that this ceo is doing , and how much time they spent making decisions that are related to the topics .
and they found that an average ceo is engaging in 139 tasks a week .
each of these topics , of course , was made up of many , many smaller decisions .
50 percent of their decisions were made in nine minutes or less .
only for about 12 percent of their decisions did they take an hour or more of their time .
think about your own decisions .
this is an organism that we described in 1996 .
do you know how many decisions you make in the nine minutes of category versus those in the one hour of category ?
how good do you think you &apos;re at making the decisions ?
today , i want to talk about one of the biggest decision-making problems of our modern time , the decision-making problem .
i want to talk about the problem and some possible solutions .
now , when i talk about this problem , i &apos;m going to ask you some questions , and i want to know your answers .
if i ask you a question , raise your hand , because i &apos;m blind , only if you want to burn some calories .
otherwise , i ask you , if i ask you a question , and your answer is yes , so my first question for today is , are you ready to hear about the decision-making problem ?
thank you .
when i was a graduate student at stanford , i went to this very exclusive grocery store , at least at the time , he was really exclusive .
it was a store called draeger &apos;s .
it lives in the deep sea , about a mile and a half , in almost boiling water temperatures .
this business , it was almost like a pleasure savings .
they had 250 different kinds of mustard and essig , and over 500 different kinds of fruits and vegetables and more than two dozen different kinds of water -- and that was at a time when we actually drank conductive water .
i loved to go to this business , but at a time , i wondered , well , how come you never buy anything ?
here &apos;s the olive oil going .
they had over 75 different kinds of olive oil , including those who were embedded in boxes that came from thousands of years old olive trees .
so one day , i decided to go to the filial , and i asked the ladder , &quot; does this model work that you really offer people all these possibilities ? &quot;
and he pointed to the buses of tourists who came every day and used to have their cameras on it .
we decided to do an experiment , and we chose marmelade for our experiment .
here &apos;s her marble aisle .
they had 348 different kinds of marmelade .
it converts co2 into methane , using hydrogen as a source of energy .
we set up a little precious ceiling right at the entrance of the store .
we &apos;ve put six different flavors of marmelade or 24 different flavors of marmelade , and we &apos;ve looked at two things : one , i guess more people would stand up and try marmelade ?
there are more people left when it was 24 , about 60 percent , than when it was six , about 40 percent .
and after that , we looked at the case where people were more likely to buy a glass of marmelade .
now we saw the reverse effect .
of the people who were standing there when they were 24 , only three percent actually bought a glass of marmelade .
of the people who stopped when they were six , well , now we saw that 30 percent of them actually bought a glass of marmelade .
now , when they did the math , people bought six times more of a glass of marmelade , who they had six choices than when they had 24 to choose .
now , deciding not to buy a glass of marble is probably good for us -- at least it &apos;s good for our waist -- but it turns out that the decision overload problem also affects us in very consequence decisions .
we don &apos;t choose to decide , even though it goes against our own best interests .
we &apos;re looking at whether we can use stored co2 , which could be easily brought to production stores , convert the co2 into fuel to drive this process .
so , the theme of the day : financial saving .
i &apos;m going to describe to you now a study that i did with gur huberman , emir kamenica , wei jang , where we looked at the decisions to save for the retirements of almost a million americans of about 650 plans across the united states .
and what we looked at was whether the number of fund offers that were possible for a retirement plan , the 401 plan , is the probability of more being saved for tomorrow .
and we found that there was actually a correlation .
so in these plans , we had about 657 plans that offered people something between two and 59 different fund .
and what we found was that the more fonds were offered , that , in fact , the rate of participation was lower .
now , if you look at the extremes , the plans , the two fund offered , had a participation rate in the &apos; 70s -- still not as high as we want .
in the plans that almost 60 fund offered , the participation rate now dropped to about the sixth percent .
now it turns out that even if you make a decision , if you have more choices , even then it has negative consequences .
so the people who decided to participate tend that the more options they had available , the more they avoided it to actia and fonds .
christianity , islam , buddhism , judaism , whatever .
within a short period of time , we think we could be able to solve one of the fundamental questions of life .
the more options they had available , the more they put all their money into pure financial market accounts .
none of these extreme decisions , belonging to the decisions that any person would recommend if we care about their future financial well-being .
well , in the last 10 years , we &apos;ve seen three major negative consequences that are providing more and more choices .
you &apos;re pushing the decision -- push it up , even when it comes to your own best interest .
they make worse decisions -- worse financial and worse medical decisions .
they &apos;re more likely to choose for things that they &apos;re less satisfying themselves , even if they make it objective better .
the main reason for this is that maybe we enjoy looking at these huge shelves full of mayonaise , mustard , essive and marble , but we can &apos;t actually take the comparisons and the boundaries and then actually pick something out of the fantastic deal .
so what i want to suggest to you today is four simple techniques -- techniques that we &apos;ve tested in different ways and different kinds of research places -- that you can just apply in your business .
first of all , confined .
you &apos;ve heard it before , but it &apos;s never been more true than today that less is .
you know , we really have -- moderate goals like replacing the whole petrochemical industry . right . if you couldn &apos;t do it at ted , where else ? to become a major source of energy .
people are always worried when i say , &quot; limited . &quot;
they &apos;re always worried that they &apos;re losing the surface of the real .
but in fact , we see it more and more , that if you &apos;re willing to confine , and you get rid of the unimportant equitable possibilities , well , then there &apos;s a increase in the sales , it &apos;s going to reduce the cost , &amp; amp ; and there &apos;s an improvement in the decision perception .
when proctor and gamble reduced the different head and shoulder species from 26 to 15 , they experienced an increase in sales by 10 percent .
when the golden cat corporation got rid of their 10 worst selling cat streus , they found that the profits went up 87 percent -- a result of both , the increase in the sales and the reducing of cost .
you know , the average supermacrt today offers 45,000 products .
a typical walmart today offers you 100,000 products .
but the ninth largest supermarket , the ninth largest supermarket in the world today is aldi , and they only provide them 1,400 products -- a kind of tomato sauce in doses .
now in the world of savings , i think one of the best examples that recently came to the market , about how best you mandate the choices , was something that david laibson was very much involved in , and it &apos;s a program that &apos;s being offered at harvard .
every single harvard staff is now automatically participating in a lifetime fund .
but in the same way , we &apos;re currently working on using the same approaches to the development of vaccines .
those who really want to make a choice are offered 20 fund , not 300 or more fund .
you know how people often say , &quot; i don &apos;t know how to limit it .
it &apos;s all important opportunities . &quot;
and the first thing that i ask the employees is , &quot; tell me how the possibilities are different from each other .
and if their employees can &apos;t keep them apart , their customers can &apos;t . &quot;
well , before we started this afternoon , i had a conversation with gary .
and gary said that he would be willing to offer all the people in this audience an all-inclusive vacation to the most beautiful street in the world .
here &apos;s a description of the street .
and i want to read them to you .
and now i &apos;m going to give you a few seconds to read them , and then i &apos;m going to ask you to clap if you &apos;re willing to take gary &apos;s offer .
you saw it this year with the flu , we &apos;re always on the back of the year , and we have a dollar too little when it comes to the right vaccine .
okay . everyone who &apos;s ready to take gary &apos;s offer .
are they all ?
well , let me show you a little bit more of that .
they knew it was a trick , right ?
well , who &apos;s ready for this journey .
i think i may have heard more hands .
all right .
the fact is that , objectively , the first time you had more information than the second time , but i would dare to guess that you felt more real in the second time .
because the images made it more real for them .
which brings me to the second technology that helps you deal with the problem of decision-making overload , which is concretization .
i think it can be changed by creating recombined vaccines in advance .
it &apos;s about the fact that people , in order to understand the difference between possibilities , have to understand what consequences are associated with the individual possibilities , and that these consequences have to be felt vividly and concrete .
why do people spend , on average , 15 to 30 percent more on using an eco card or a credit card than on barrel ?
because it doesn &apos;t really feel money .
and it turns out that if you make it feel concrete , it &apos;s a very good tool to get people to save more .
so , in a study that i did with shlomo benartzi and alessandro previtero , we did a study with the people at ing -- employees that all worked for ing -- and these people were all in a gathering where they signed their participation for their retirement plan .
and during this gathering , we &apos;ve left this gathering just as it used to be , except we &apos;ve added a little bit .
the little thing that we add to it was that we asked people to just think about all the positive things that would happen in their lives if they were saving money .
in which we did this simple thing , there was a 20 percent increase in participation , and there was a increase in the number of people who were willing to save , or a rise by four percent in the amount that they were willing to pay for the savings accounts .
the third technology : categorization .
we can deal with more categories than with more choices .
that &apos;s what the future might look like with changes , can now accelerate the evolutionary tree with synthetic bacteria , archaas , and perhaps eukaryonts .
for example , here &apos;s a study that we did in a magazine process .
it turns out that in the throwaway man &apos;s supermarkets up and down in the northeast area , the number is variing between 331 different types of magazines up to 664 magazines .
but you know what ?
if i show you 600 magazines , and i split them into 10 categories , or i show you 400 magazines , and i split them into 20 categories , then you think i &apos;ve given you more choice and a better choice than i &apos;d given you the 400 if i had given you the 600 .
because the categories tell me how to keep them apart .
these are two different jewelry facilities .
one is called &quot; jazz , &quot; and the other is called &quot; swing . &quot;
if you think the one on the left is swing , and the ad on the right is jazz , you clap your hands .
okay , there are a few .
if you think it &apos;s on the left , jazz , and the one on the right side is swing , please clap .
we are light years from improving people , and our goal is just that we have a chance to survive long enough to possibly do that . thank you very much .
okay , a few more .
well , it turns out they &apos;re right .
the one on the left is jazz , and the one on the right is swing , but you know what ?
this is a highly unuseful category scheme .
the categories have to say something to the chosen , not to which he provides the choice .
and you see this problem often when you look at the long lists of all these fonds .
who do you really want to inform with this ?
my fourth technology : premise for complexity .
it turns out that we can actually deal with more information than we think , we just have to simplify it .
we need to increase complexity slowly .
at the last ted conference , i gave a introduction to the lhc .
i &apos;m going to show you an example of what i mean .
let &apos;s take a very , very complicated decision : the purchase of a car .
here &apos;s a german car manufacturer who gives you the opportunity to completely configure your car .
you have to make 62 different decisions to completely design your car .
now , these decisions are different from the number of choices that they provide per decision .
car color , outcolor of the car -- i have 56 options .
motors , gears -- four possibilities .
what i &apos;m doing now is i &apos;m changing the order in which the decisions appear .
half of the customers go from the many possibilities of 56 car colors to the low possibilities , four gears .
the other half of the clients go from the low possibilities , four gears , to the 56 car colors , many possibilities .
and i promised to come back to explain to you how the machine works .
what am i looking at ?
how interested they are .
if you &apos;re always using the standard choice in the decision , that means you &apos;re overwhelmed , the hottest , i &apos;m losing it .
what they &apos;re finding is that the people who go from the many to the low selective dough will go over and over and over again to the standard selection .
we lose them .
go from the little choices to the many , then they stay there .
it &apos;s the same information . it &apos;s the same number of possibilities .
the only thing i &apos;ve done is to change the order in which this information is presented .
when i start with the simple one , i learn how to choose .
even though the gear is choosing , not telling me about my preferences at the interior , it &apos;s still preparing me to choose .
so it &apos;s here . and for those of you who weren &apos;t there at the time , the lhc is the largest scientific experiment ever attempted -- 27 miles in diameter .
it also gets me excited about the big product that i put together , and so i &apos;m willing to be motivated to be involved in this .
let me summarize .
i &apos;ve told you about four techniques that mimic the problem of decision-making overload -- limits -- get rid of the obsolete alternatives ; concretize it -- make it real ; categorize -- we can better deal with more categories , less possibilities ; prepare for complexity .
each of these techniques that i &apos;m going to describe to you today is to help you manage the possibilities -- good for you , you can use them for yourself , good for the people that you offer service .
because i think the key to the best possible choice is that you &apos;re selective .
and the more we &apos;re choosing , the better we &apos;re going to be able to practice the art of choice .
thank you .
hi . i &apos;m kevin allocca , trends-manager on youtube , and i &apos;m looking at youtube videos for a living .
that &apos;s true .
today we want to talk about how videos become viral , and then we want to talk about why that &apos;s important at all .
a continent is always left out , because the assumption was that in sub-saharan africa , there was no religious faith , and of course there was one , and voodoo is simply the remaining of this very profound religious thought that came over during the tragic diaspora of slavery time .
his job is to create the conditions that existed less than a billionth of a second after the universe began -- and that up to 600 million times in a second .
we all want to be stars -- famous , singers , comedians -- when i was young , it seemed so infinitely difficult .
but web video has enabled us all , or all of our creative activities , to become insanely famous in part of the world &apos;s culture .
every single one of you could be famous on the internet until the next saturday .
but on youtube , more than 48 hours of video is uploaded every minute .
again , a tiny percentage of that will ever be viral , and it will be looked at thousands of times , and so at the cultural moment .
so how does this work ?
three things : tastemaker , participation communities and unexpected .
well , then we want to .
oh my god . oh my god .
oh my god !
it &apos;s just breathtaking ambition .
whoa !
ohhhhhh , wowwww !
last year , bear vasquez sent this video that he had filmed before his yosemite national park house .
in 2010 , it had been looked at 23 million times .
this graph shows what it looked like when the video was first popular last summer .
actually , bear didn &apos;t want to make a viral video .
he just wanted to share one rainbow .
because that &apos;s what you do when you &apos;re called yosemite mountain bear .
he had uploaded a lot of natural videos .
and this video had actually been sent in january .
this is the machine below geneva .
what happened here ?
there was jimmy kimmel coming .
jimmy kimmel sent the tweet , who eventually made the video so popular .
because tastemaker like jimmy kimmel introduces us to new and interesting things and show a big audience .
it &apos;s friday , friday . gotta get down on friday . everybody &apos;s looking forward to the weekend , weekend . friday , friday . gettin &apos; down on friday . you wouldn &apos;t have thought we would have this conversation without talking about this video , i hope .
rebecca blacks is one of the most popular videos of the year .
it was looked at almost 200 million times this year .
this is what the chart looked like .
just like &quot; double rainbow , &quot; it seems to have come out of nowhere .
what happened that day ?
we take pictures of this mini-big bang in detectors .
well , it was friday , that &apos;s true .
if you want to know it , these other peaks are also fridays .
but what about that day , that particular friday ?
well , tosh.0 , a lot of blogs started writing about it .
michael j. nelson from the mystery science theater was one of the first to make a joke on twitter .
what &apos;s important is that a single person or group of tastemakers took a standpoint , shared with a large audience , and they accelerated the process .
and then this community of people who shared this great insider joke , and they started talking about it and playing around with it .
now there are 10,000 parodies of &quot; friday &quot; on youtube .
in the first seven days , there was a parody for every single week .
unlike the entertainment of the 20th century , the participation of the community is our way of becoming part of this phenomenon -- either by spreading it or by making something new .
that &apos;s what i work on . it &apos;s called the atlas detector -- 44 meters in the width , 22 meters in diameter .
&quot; nyan cat &quot; is animation and music in endless loop .
that &apos;s it , very simple .
this year , it was looked at almost 50 million times .
and if you think that &apos;s crazy , you should know that there &apos;s a three-hour version of this that &apos;s been looked at four million times .
even cats look at this video .
cats are looking at cats that are looking at this video .
what &apos;s important is the creativity that is dominated in the internet culture of techie and geeks .
there were remixes .
someone made an old-fashioned version of it .
and then it became international .
here &apos;s a spectacular image of the atlas in the construction so you can see the scale .
a whole remix community took off the ground that made it from a stupid joke to something that we can all participate in .
today , we don &apos;t just find pleasure in something , we &apos;re doing with it .
who could have anticipated all this ?
who could have predicted double rainbow or rebecca black or nyan cat ?
what scripts would you have been able to write in which this is pressed ?
in a world where every minute two video is uploaded , it can only be really unique and unexpected as the videos i mentioned .
i admit , i wasn &apos;t particularly interested , when a friend told me to watch this great video , about a guy who protests for bicycles in new york .
i got a ticket because i didn &apos;t go on the bike lane , but often there are disabilities that don &apos;t let you go on the bike .
since that was completely surprising and humorous , casey niestats had a funny idea and his argument looked at five million times .
this approach is true of all the new things that we do creatively .
on september 10 , last year , the machine ran for the first time .
and all of this leads us to the one big question .
what does that mean ?
ohhh .
what does that mean ?
tastemaker , creative participants , completely unexpected , are the features of a new kind of media and culture that anyone has access to and that is the audience of popularity .
as i said , one of the biggest stars now -- justin bieber -- made his beginning on youtube .
no one has to give your ideas green light .
and today , we all feel as owners of our pop culture .
and these are not the features of the old media , and they &apos;re not going to meet the media of today , but they &apos;re going to determine the conversation of the future .
thank you .
and this picture was taken by atlas .
the story is not over yet .
it &apos;s a puzzle that &apos;s still being put together .
i want to tell you about some of the puzzles .
imagine the first piece : a man who burns his life &apos;s work .
he &apos;s a poet , a writer , a man whose whole life was held together by the simple hope of oneness and freedom of his home .
keep him in mind at the march of the communist in saigon , as he must admit that his life had been a single waste .
the words , as long as his friends , were now mocking his .
he pulled back into silence .
he died , broken through history .
it caused immense jewelry in the control room .
he &apos;s my grandfather .
i never met him personally .
but our lives are so much more than our memories .
my grandmother never let me forget his life .
i had to make sure that it wasn &apos;t free , and it was my job to learn that history was trying to crush us , but we got through it .
the next piece of the puzzle shows how a boat is running out in the early morning red on the lake .
my mother may was 18 when her father died -- already in an arranged marriage , already with two little girls .
for her , life had given her a task : the escape of her family and a new life in australia .
it was completely excluded that it could fail .
after a four-year-old and film , saga glitt was silent on the lake as a fisherman boat .
it &apos;s a picture of the first radiation particle that returned the entire distance around the lhc , and then intentionally collided with a part of the lhc to make a rain of particles jump on the detector .
all adults were aware of the risks .
the biggest fear they had was pirate , rape and death .
like most adults on the boat , my mother was wearing a little poison bottle .
if you had a prisoner , my sister and i would have only drank her and my grandmother .
my first memories are from this boat -- the steady scarf of the engine , the clapping of any wave on the bug , the long and empty horizon .
i don &apos;t remember the pirates that came out many times , but i remember the death courage of the men on our boat , or the error of the engine , who didn &apos;t want to start six hours .
but i remember the lights of the oil platform off the malayan coast , and the young man who collapsed and died , the end of the journey was too much for him , and the taste of the first apple that one of the men gave me on the platform .
no apple ever tasted like this again .
after three months in a refugee camp , we ended up in melbourne .
and the next piece of the puzzle is about four women in three generations together to build a new life .
but what makes voodoo so interesting is this living relationship between the living and the dead .
in other words , when we saw this image on september 10 , we knew that the machine works , which is a big triumph .
we let ourselves down in footscray , one of the working-class suburbs , whose population is immigrant layers .
unlike in the old-fashioned middle class suburbs , where i was completely unknown to exist , there was no sophisticated thinking in footscray .
the smells from the trucks came out of the rest of the world .
and the feathers were exchanged between people who had one thing in common : they started new .
my mother worked on farms , then on a assembly line in a car factory , six days , double layers .
she somehow managed to find the time , to acquire english and it qualifications .
we were poor .
every dollar was given , and was put into more education for english and mathematics , no matter what we had to give to it , and most of the time , the new things that always came out of the second hand .
two strings for school , each one , to cover the holes in the other .
a school uniform up to the buttons , because it had to reach six years .
i don &apos;t know if this made the biggest jew , or this , when someone went to the google side and found the front page like this .
and there were the rare but painful choirs of &quot; snippets , &quot; and here and there was a mural : &quot; asian , go home . &quot;
home where ?
something got inside me .
there was a meeting for reconciliation , and a quiet voice said , &quot; i &apos;m going to go out of your way . &quot;
my mother , my sister and i slept in the same bed .
my mother was exhausted every night , but we told each other about our day , and we listened to the movements of our grandmother in the house .
my mother suffered from nightmares from the boat .
and my job was to stay awake every night , until their nightmares came up so i could wake them up .
she opened up a computer business , then made a cosmetic education and opened a business .
and the women came with their stories about men who didn &apos;t get the change , angry and unflexible , and carefully filled children , caught between two worlds .
it means that we have a cultural impact besides the scientific achievement .
loans and sponsors were searched .
centers were built up .
i lived in parallel worlds .
in one , i was the classic asian student , who gave unquestionable demands to himself .
in the other , i was involved in unsafe lives , the tragic scars of violence , the drug abuse and insulation .
but so many have been given help over the years .
and because of this help , in my last year of law school , i was chosen as a young australian of the year .
and i was catapulted by a piece of puzzle to the next , and the edges didn &apos;t fit together .
tan le , anonymous residents of footscray , was now tan le , refugee and social activist , who had been invited to speak in places she had never heard of , and in housing that she could never have imagined .
i wasn &apos;t familiar with the label .
about a week later , there was a problem with the machine that had to do with these wires here -- these golden wires here .
i didn &apos;t know how to use the bribe .
i didn &apos;t know how to talk about wine .
i didn &apos;t know how to talk about anything .
i wanted to go back to the routine and the comfort of the life of an unknown suburb -- a grandmother , a mother and two daughters who locked each of their days as much as for 20 years by telling each other the stories of their day and asleep , we still have three in the same bed .
i told my mother i couldn &apos;t do that .
she reminded me that i was now as old as they were when we got on the boat .
no , it had never been an opportunity .
&quot; just do it , &quot; she said . &quot; and be not what you are . &quot;
so i talked about youthless and education , and the neglecting of the marginalized and disenfranchised .
and the more open i was talking , the more i should tell .
these wires lead 13-thousand ampere when the machine runs on high performance .
i met people in all life , so many of them did what they loved , lived at the limits of the possible .
and even though i graduated from my degree , i realized that i couldn &apos;t find myself in a career in jura .
there had to be another piece of puzzle .
and i realized at the same time that it &apos;s okay to be an outsider , a newcomer , new in the picture -- and not just okay , but something to be grateful for , maybe a gift of the boat .
because belonging can be so easy to collapse the horizon , it can be so easy to accept the assumptions of the environment .
i &apos;ve now gone out of enough of my comfort zone to know that , yes , the world is falling apart , but not the way you fear it .
opportunities that wouldn &apos;t have been allowed have been explicitly encouraged .
there was an energy , an unprecedented optimism , a strange mixture of humility and daring .
so i followed my gut feeling .
i collected a small team of people around me , for whom the shoe is not going to be an unresistant challenge .
now , the engineers among you will look at them and say , &quot; no , they don &apos;t . these are little wires . &quot;
for a year , we didn &apos;t have a cent .
at the end of every day , i cook a giant pot of soup that we shared .
we worked late at night .
most of our ideas were crazy , but it was a few brilliant people , and we made the breakthrough .
i made the decision to move to the united states .
after just one journey there .
my gut feeling again .
three months later , i was moved , and the adventure went on .
before i finish the talk , i want to tell you about my grandmother .
she grew up at a time when confucianism was the social norm and the local mandarin the most important person .
they can do that because if you cool them down very far , they become something called superconductors .
life had not changed for centuries .
her father died shortly after her birth .
her mother raised her on her own .
at 17 , she became the second woman of a mandarin whose mother beat her .
with no support for her husband , she got a sensation by taking him to court and being a jurisdiction in her own case , and a greater sensation than she won .
&quot; don &apos;t go , &quot; turned out to be untrue .
i was just shooting in a hotel room in sydney when she died , 1,000 miles away in melbourne .
i looked through the shower wall , and i saw them standing on the other side .
i knew she &apos;d come to pass .
my mother called me a few minutes after that .
so at minus 271 degrees , colder than the room between the stars , these wires can hold the tension .
a few days later , we went to a buddhist temple in footscray and sat around their coffin .
we told her stories , and we assured her that we were still with her .
at midnight , the monk came and said he had to close the coffin .
my mother asked us to touch her hand .
she asked the monk , &quot; why is your hand so warm and the rest of her is so cold ? &quot;
&quot; because they &apos;ve been holding them this morning , &quot; he said .
&quot; they didn &apos;t let it go . &quot;
if there &apos;s a band in our family , it goes through the women .
you can see who we were , and how life shaped us , we can now see that the men who might have come to our lives would have come to us .
the defeat would have been too simple .
in one of the connections , between over nine-thousand magnets in the lhc , there was a manufactured tower defect .
now i &apos;d like to have my own kids , and i &apos;m still thinking about the boat .
who would ever want one ?
yes , i &apos;m afraid of privilege , of ease , of legitimacy .
can i give you a bug in your life that is courageously defying every wave , the unbiased , steady scarf of the engine , the vast horizon that doesn &apos;t guarantee anything ?
i don &apos;t know .
but if i could give that and get it safely through , i would do it .
and also , tans &apos;s mother is here today in the fourth row or the fifth row .
i &apos;m here to share my photography with you .
is it photography at all ?
because , of course , this is a picture that you can &apos;t take with your camera .
and by doing that , the wires were lightly heating , and 13-thousand ampere suddenly encountered electric resistance .
and yet , my interest in photography , when i got my first digital camera , at the age of 15 .
i combined it with my earlier preference for drawing , but it was a little bit different , because using the camera was actually the process of planning .
and when you take a picture with a camera , the process ends when you press the trigger .
so for me , photography seemed to be more about being in the right place at the right time .
i thought everybody could .
so i wanted to create something else , something where the process begins when the trigger is pressed .
photographs like this : a building site along a much riding road .
but it has an unexpected twist .
and yet , it keeps a realistic level .
or photographs like this -- dark and colorful at the same time , but all with the common goal of keeping a realistic level .
the living bears are the spirits .
this was the result .
when i say reality , i mean photoreality .
because , of course , it &apos;s not something that you can really capture , but i always want to make it look like they could have , in a photograph .
photographs where you have to think for a moment in order to figure out the trick .
so it &apos;s more about capturing an idea than really a moment .
but what is the trick that makes it look realistic ?
is it about the details or the colors ?
is it about the light ?
what creates the illusion ?
sometimes the perspective is the illusion .
but in the end , it &apos;s about how we interpret the world and how it can be made tangible on a two-dimensional surface .
now , all of this is even more impressive if you can imagine that the magnets weigh over 20 tons and shifted by about 30 inches .
it &apos;s not about what &apos;s realistic , but what we think is realistic .
so i think the foundations are very simple .
i think of it as a puzzle of reality , where you can take different pieces and put them together to create an alternative reality .
and let me show you a simple example .
we have three perfectly imaginable physical objects that we can all relate to in a three-dimensional world .
but in a certain way , you can create something that still looks three-dimensional , as if it could exist .
but at the same time , we know that this is not possible .
so we &apos;re going to list our brains , because our brains simply don &apos;t accept that it doesn &apos;t really make sense .
and i see the same process in combining photos .
it &apos;s really just about combining different realities .
so we damaged about 50 of the magnets .
so the things that make an image look realistic , i think it &apos;s the things that we don &apos;t think about , the things around us in our everyday lives .
but when we combine photographs , it &apos;s really important to think about it , because otherwise they just look kind of wrong .
so i would say that there are three simple rules to follow to achieve a realistic outcome .
as you can see , these are not three special images .
but combined , you can create something special like this .
so the first rule is that combined photos should have the same perspective .
secondly , combined photos should have the same kind of lighting .
and these two images are fulfilling these two demands -- from the same height and the same kind of illumination .
third , it &apos;s about making it impossible to tell where the individual images start and end by connecting them seamlessly .
make it impossible to say how the photograph was actually put together .
and they had to remove what we did .
so by comparing color , contrast and brightness to the edges of the individual images , photographic deprivation , like field depth , degraded colors and disorders , we wipe the boundaries between the different images and make them look like a single photograph , even though a picture can basically contain hundreds of levels .
here &apos;s another example .
you might think that this is just a landscape , and the bottom part was manipulated .
but this picture is actually completely composed of photographs of different places .
i personally find that it &apos;s easier to create a place than to find a place , because you don &apos;t have to go into compromise with the ideas in your head .
but it requires a lot of planning .
and when i had this idea in the winter , i knew that it took me several months to plan it , to find the different places for the pieces of the puzzle .
for example , the fish had been recorded on a jar trip .
the bank is from a different place .
the underwater part comes from a quarry .
we repaired them , we repaired them .
and yes , i actually turned the house up on the island of red to make it look swedish .
so in order to achieve a realistic outcome , it goes from me to planning .
i always start with a sketch , an idea .
and then it &apos;s about the combination of the different images .
and here , every piece is very well planned .
and then if you do good images , the result can be pretty beautiful , and also quite realistic .
so there are all the tools there , and the only thing that limimics us is our imagination .
thank you .
i &apos;d like to talk to you about why so many electronic health projects fail .
and i think the most important thing about this is that we &apos;ve stopped talking to our patients .
they &apos;re all back on their way now .
and one of the things that we introduced at bike boud university was to make a major listener .
and she doesn &apos;t do a lot of science -- she introduces a cup of coffee or tea , and she asks the patients , families , relatives , &quot; how do you do ?
how can we help you ? &quot;
and we think we want to think that this is one of the main problems , why all -- maybe most of the electronic health projects are missing : because we &apos;ve stopped listening .
this is my wlan-scale . it &apos;s a very simple thing .
it has a button , on / out .
and every morning , i jump on it .
and yes , i have a task , as you might recognize .
i did my job at 95 pounds .
it works very simply : every time i jump to the scale , it also sends my data to google health .
by the end of march , the lhc is going to work again .
and there they &apos;re also called off my general physician so that he can see where my weight problem is , not only the moment i need cardiological support or so , but also with a view of the past .
but there &apos;s something else .
maybe you know that , i have over 4,000 followers on twitter .
so every morning , i &apos;m going to jump up to my win-scale , and people are talking to me before i &apos;m in the car , &quot; for lunch , just a little salad today , lucien . &quot;
but this is the most networking thing that can happen , because this is the peer pressure , group forced to help patients , because this could be used against obesity , or it could be used to smoking .
but it could also be used to get people out of their chairs and get them to play together some kind of game to control their health better .
next week , this is coming to the market .
there &apos;s going to be this little blood pressure measuring device that you attach to an iphone or something .
and it &apos;s going to enable people to measure their blood pressure from home , send it to their doctor , and share it with others for something more than 100 dollars .
at this point , the patients come in , they can not only take control , they can be captain on their own ship , but they can also help us in the face of the challenges that are ahead of us , and the cost explosion of health , and double demand , and so on .
we &apos;re going to turn it on , and expect to collect the first data in june or july , and continue our journey to figure out what the building blocks of the universe are .
make ways that are easy to use and start to hug patients in the team .
and they can do that through those techniques , but also through crowdsourcing .
and one of the things that we did , i want to share with you through a short video .
we have all the navigation systems in our cars .
maybe even in our cell phones .
we know exactly where all the atm machines are around maastricht .
we know another one where all the gas stations are .
and sure enough , we can find fast food chains .
but where would the next aed be to help this patient ?
we asked around , and nobody knew .
well , of course , in a way , these accidents again , the debate about the value of science and engineering on such boundaries . it &apos;s easy to reject something like this .
no one knew where to find the next life-saving aed at that moment .
so what did we do ? we crowdsourced in the netherlands .
we built a website and asked a crowd , &quot; if you see an aed , please share with us where he is , when he &apos;s up , &quot; because sometimes he &apos;s closed during business times , of course .
and over 10,000 aeds were already reported in the netherlands .
the next step was to find the apps for this .
and we created an ipad app .
we &apos;ve developed an app for layar , augmented reality , to find these aeds .
and if you &apos;re in a city like maastricht and someone collapses , you can use your iphone , and within the next few weeks , your microsoftware cell phone to find the next aed that can save lives .
and today , we want to do this not only as an aed4u , as the product calls itself , but also as an aed4us .
and we want to take this to a global level .
i think the fact that it &apos;s so hard to grasp beyond our limits is the value of things like the lhc .
and we ask our colleagues around the world , from other universities , to help us behave like nodes to crowdsource these aeds around the world .
and if you &apos;re on vacation and someone collapses , whether it &apos;s your own relativity or someone else , you can find an aed like that .
the other thing we want to ask for is that companies around the world help us confirm these aeds .
these might be curiosity services , or technicians , for example , just to make sure that the signed aed is still in its place .
please help us do this , and try not only to improve health , but to take control of it .
thank you .
today , i &apos;m going to tell you about unexpected discoveries .
i work in the solar technology industry .
and my little startup wants us to force ourselves to conserve by ...
... it gives attention to crowdsourcing .
the spirits can be summarized by under the great water , answers to the rhythm of dance , to deny the soul of the living , so that acolyth is a short shiny moment to god .
i &apos;m going to leave my final words to an english scientist . humphrey davy , who , i think , defended the useless experiments of his teaching , his apprentice was michael faraday , said , &quot; nothing is so dangerous for the development of the human mind , to assume that our scientific ideas are final , that there are no mysteries in nature , that our triumphs are complete , and that there are no new worlds to conquer . &quot;
here &apos;s a short video of what we do .
oh . a moment .
it may take you to get charged .
now -- we can just jump this over -- i &apos;m just going to skip the video instead ...
no .
that &apos;s not ...
okay .
solar technology is ...
oh , my time is over ?
okay . thank you .
thank you .
so a few years ago , i started a program to get the stars in technology and design to take a year off and work in an environment that is pretty much everything they hate , we let them work in the government .
the program is called &quot; code for america , &quot; and it &apos;s a little bit like the peacekeepers scorps for geeks .
we choose some field trucks every year , and we let them work with urban stewards .
instead of sending them to the third world , we &apos;re sending them to city hall .
and there they developed great apps , working with urban collaborators .
but what they really do is to show what technology is possible today .
so they meet al .
al is a hydrant in the city of boston .
here it looks like he &apos;s looking for a date , but what he &apos;s really looking for is someone who &apos;s releasing him when he &apos;s locked in , because he knows he &apos;s not very good at burning when he &apos;s covered by a meter snow .
how did he get to look for help in this particular way ?
i &apos;m a writer .
last year , we had a team of fellows in boston in the suit of the code for america program .
they were there in february , and it did a lot of work last february .
and they realized that the city never releases these hydrants .
but a particular fellow , a man named erik michael ober , noticed something else , and that was that the residents were freely smashing the sidewalks right in front of these parts .
so he did what any good developer would do , he wrote an app .
it &apos;s a nice little app where you can adopt a hydrant .
you voted to him for free when it &apos;s snowing .
if you do that , you can give him a name , and he called the first al .
if you don &apos;t do that , someone can take it away .
so there &apos;s a nice little game dynamic .
writing books is my profession , but it &apos;s obviously more than that .
this is a modest little app .
it &apos;s probably the smallest of the 21 apps that the fellows wrote last year .
but it does something that no other government technology does .
it spreads rapidly .
there &apos;s this guy in the i.t. department of the city of honolulu , who saw that he could use this app , not for snow , but for the citizens to adopt tsunami sirens .
it &apos;s very important that these tsunami sires work , but people steal the batteries .
so he got the citizens to check them .
and then seattle decided to use the app to get the citizens to clean the clogged gullys .
and chicago has just introduced it to the people who are freeing the bullseye when it &apos;s snowing .
we now know nine cities that are planning to use this app .
it &apos;s also my great , lifelong love and fascination .
and it &apos;s spread profoundly , organically , of course .
if you know something about government technology , you know that it doesn &apos;t normally work that way .
it usually takes a few years to get software .
we had a team that worked on a project in boston last year that took three and a half months to do this .
it was about a method where parents can figure out which ones are the right public schools for their children .
we were told later that if it had gone over the normal channels , it would have taken over two years , and it would have cost over two million dollars .
and that &apos;s nothing yet .
there &apos;s a project in california right now that has cost the taxpayers two billion dollars , and it doesn &apos;t work .
and there are projects like this at every level of government .
so an app that &apos;s written in a couple of days , and then it spread from rare , is a kind of shot in front of the bug to the government &apos;s institution .
and i don &apos;t expect that to ever change .
it shows how the government could work better -- no longer like a private company , how many people think it should work .
and not even like a technology company , but rather like the internet itself .
and that means free access , which means open and productive .
and that &apos;s important .
but more importantly , this app is that it represents a new generation that tackles the problem of government -- not as the problem of a saled institution , but as a problem of collective action .
and that &apos;s a very good news , because it turns out that we &apos;re very good at collective action with digital technology .
now , there &apos;s a big community of people who are making the tools that we need to effectively pack things together .
it &apos;s not just &quot; code for america &quot; fellows ; there are hundreds of people around the country who stand up and write government apps every day in their own communities .
they didn &apos;t give up the government .
they &apos;re terribly frustrated with her , but they don &apos;t complain about it , they repair it .
however , recently , something weird has happened in my life and my career that has led me to completely rethink my relationship to this work .
and these people know something that we &apos;ve lost from the eyes .
and that &apos;s when you forget all of your feelings about politics and the snake at the workforce and all of the other things that we &apos;re really excited about , is government , at the core , in the words of tim o &apos;reilly , &quot; what we do together , that we can &apos;t do alone . &quot;
today , a lot of people have given up the government .
and if you &apos;re one of those people , i ask you to think about it , because things change .
the politics doesn &apos;t change ; the government is in change .
and because the government ultimately exhausts its power from us -- remember , &quot; we people ? &quot; -- as we think about it , will affect how this change happens .
i didn &apos;t know very much about government when i started this program .
and like a lot of people , i thought that the government is all about choosing people into a office .
now , after two years , i &apos;ve come to the conclusion that it &apos;s all about thylacines in particular .
this is the call center for service and information .
this strange event was that i was writing a book recently -- a biography called michael eat , pray , love -- that , unlike all my previous books for some reason , went out into the world and became a big mega-event , international bestseller thing .
that &apos;s where you usually get out when you call in your city of 311 .
if you ever have the chance to work in your urban call center , like our fellow scott silverman , as part of the program -- in fact , you all do -- you &apos;ll see that the people , the government , for many different problems , are calling , including a thylacine in your house .
so scott gets this fruit .
he types &quot; thylacine &quot; into the official database .
and he doesn &apos;t really have an idea . he starts with the animal beginner .
and finally , he says , &quot; look , can you just open all the doors in your house and play very noisy music and see if the livestock is smashing ? &quot;
and that worked . applause for scott .
but that wasn &apos;t the end of the thylacine .
boston doesn &apos;t just have a call center .
it has an app , a web and cell phone app , called citizens connect .
the result is that , no matter where i come from , i &apos;m treated as if i &apos;m running out of the process .
we didn &apos;t write this app .
this is the work of very smart people at the office of the new urban mechanics in boston .
one day -- this is an actual report -- came in : &quot; thylacine in my trash bin . can &apos;t tell if it &apos;s dead .
how do i get them away ? &quot;
but what happened to citizens connect is different .
scott was talking from human to human .
but on citizens connect , it &apos;s all public , so everyone can see it .
and in this case , it saw a neighbor .
and the next entry that we got was , &quot; i went over there , found the trash ton behind the house .
thylacine ? yes . alive ? yap .
seriously -- doomed to the demise !
turned the trash ton on the side . went home .
good night , sweet thylacine . &quot;
pretty simple .
this is great . this is the digital hitting the physical .
and it &apos;s also a good example of how the government is getting into crowdsourcing .
but it &apos;s also a great example of government as a platform .
and i don &apos;t necessarily mean a technical definition of the platform .
i &apos;m more talking about a platform for people to help themselves and to help others .
a citizen helped another citizen , but the government played a central role here .
she connected these two people .
so the voodooists like to say , &quot; you white go to church and talk about god .
for example , you get very worried about me and say , &quot; don &apos;t you fear you &apos;re never going to overcome this success ?
and you could have connected them to government services if they were needed , but a neighbor is a much better and cheaper alternative to public services .
when one neighbor helps the other , we strengthen our communities .
let &apos;s call the animal catcher , it costs a lot of money .
one of the most important things is that we have to remember that government is not the same as politics .
and most people understand that , but they believe that one is the input of the other .
that our contribution to the system is to choose .
how often did we choose a political leader -- and sometimes we used a lot of energy to choose a new political leader -- and then we recline , and we expect the government , reflects our values and fulfills our needs , and then not much has changed ?
that &apos;s because the government is like a farther ocean , and politics is the top five inches .
and what &apos;s below that is what we call bureaucracy .
and we use this word with such contempt .
don &apos;t you worry about writing your whole life on and never creating a book that anyone cares about in the world ? never again ?
but it &apos;s this contempt that makes this thing that we own , and that we pay for , be something that works against us , something else , and then we set ourselves up .
people seem to think , politics is sexy .
if we want this institution to work for us , we need to make bureaucracy sexy .
because that &apos;s where the actual government work is happening .
we have to rely on the machinery of the government .
so the occupythesia movement did it .
did you see these guys ?
it &apos;s a group of troubled citizens who wrote a very detailed 325-page report , which is an answer to the sec-memo about the financial reform legislation .
it &apos;s not politically active , it &apos;s bureaucratically active .
well , for those of us who &apos;ve given up government , it &apos;s time for us to think about the world that we want to leave our children behind .
okay , that &apos;s really courageous .
you have to imagine the enormous challenges that they have to face .
do we really believe that we can do what we need to do without improving the institution that can act on behalf of all of us ?
a government is absolutely necessary , but it needs to be more efficient .
the good news is that technology makes it possible to fundamentally reframe the function of government in a way that can actually achieve something by strengthening society .
and there &apos;s a generation that &apos;s grown up with the internet , and it knows that it &apos;s not that hard to do things together , you just have to build systems .
now the average age of our field is 28 , so i &apos;m , unfortunately , almost one generation older than most of you .
this is a generation that grew up seeing your voice for granted .
they &apos;re not fighting this fight that we &apos;re all fighting about who &apos;s allowed to speak ; they &apos;re all allowed to speak .
you can express your mind , on every channel at any time , and you do .
so , if you &apos;re faced with the problem of government , don &apos;t care so much about using your voices .
but it would be worse if i didn &apos;t remember that , over 20 years ago , when i was a teenager , i was first told that i wanted to be a writer , i was faced with the same kind of anxious response .
they use their hands .
they use their hands to write applications that improve government &apos;s work .
and these apps let us use our hands to improve our communities .
that might be to free a fire hydrant , to hunters , to turn a trash can with a thylacine .
and sure enough , we could have released these hydrants all the time , and many people do that .
but these apps are like little digital memories that we &apos;re not just consumers , and we &apos;re not just consumers of government who are paying taxes and receiving services .
we are more than that , we are citizens .
and we &apos;re not going to improve government until we improve citizenship .
so the question i have for all of you here : when it comes to the big , important things that we have to do together , all together , are we just going to be a lot of voices , or are we going to be a lot of hands ?
thank you .
people said , are you not afraid to never succeed ?
my role , usually , is to explain to people how wonderful the new technologies that are coming up are going to be , and i thought , because i &apos;m here with friends , i would tell you what i really think , and also try to look back and understand what &apos;s really going on , with these incredible jumps forward , which are so fast that we can hardly keep up .
i &apos;m going to start showing you a single boring slide .
... could you show the slide , please .
this is a slide that i happened to pick out of my folder .
i &apos;m not talking about the details of the slide , but rather the general shape .
this slide shows you data from an analysis of the performance of risc processors compared to the performance of a local area network .
the interesting thing here is that this slide , like so many other people that we often meet in our field , is a kind of semi-logarithmic curve .
in other words , every step here is a potential in the performance scale .
and this is a novelty that we need to use this guy scale on semi-logarithmic curves in the field of technology .
something very strange happens here .
are you not afraid that the humiliation of a saying will kill you ?
this is basically what i &apos;m going to talk about here .
so , if you could turn the lights back on , please .
a little bit more bright , because i &apos;m going to draw on the paper in a minute .
now , why do we draw graphs on semi-logarithmic curves in technology ?
the reason for that is , if i were to draw it on a normal curve , where , say , these are the years , the timeline of a species , and this is any kind of mass of technology that i want to show with a graph , the graph will be silly .
they look like this .
and that doesn &apos;t tell us much .
now , if i want to record another technology , let &apos;s say a transportation technology , that would be on the semi-logarithmic scale very unreasonably , in the form of a flat line .
but if something like this happens , it changes the qualitative circumstances .
so if the transportation technology was going as fast as the microprocessor technology was going , we could get in a taxi overnight , and in 30 seconds , we would be in tokyo .
are you not afraid you &apos;re going to go after your life &apos;s work and never come out of it , and that you &apos;re going to die on a scrambled dream -- your mouth filled with the bitter ashes of failure ?
but that &apos;s not going so fast .
this has never happened before in the history of technology , this kind of recursive growth , through which the scale increases exponentially every few years .
the question i want to ask you now is , if you look at these exponential curves , you can see they don &apos;t go on forever .
it &apos;s not possible that everything is evolving forever and forever as fast as it is now .
there are two options .
either it becomes a classic s-curve like this , until something completely new comes in , or it &apos;s going to happen here .
that &apos;s kind of what it is .
well , i &apos;m an optimist , so i think something like this is going to happen .
if that &apos;s true , that means we &apos;re in the middle of a transition right now .
we &apos;re here on this line , in a transition from the world to a new kind of world .
like that , you know .
so the question i want to ask , and i often ask myself , is , how is this new world going to be good ?
what is this new state that the world is beginning to embrace ?
because the transition seems to be very , very confusing when you &apos;re in the middle .
when i was a kid , there was the future somewhere in 2000 , and people were often talking about what would happen in 2000 .
now we have a conference here where people are talking about the future , and you realize that the future is still at 2000 .
we &apos;re not going to go further than that .
so in other words , every year , the future has shrunk by a year since i &apos;ve been in this world .
and i think the reason for that is that we realize that there &apos;s something going on .
the transition is happening . we can all feel it .
and we know that it just doesn &apos;t make sense right now to try to look 30 or 50 years into the future , because everything will be so different that a simple calculation of what we &apos;re doing now just doesn &apos;t make sense .
the answer -- the short answer to all of these questions is yes .
now , i want to talk about what this might be , this transition that we &apos;re in right now .
to do this , i &apos;m going to talk first about some other things that really have nothing to do with technology or computers .
because in order to really understand this , i think we have to take a step back and look at the thing on a longer scale of time .
and that is , i want to look at this on the time scale of the earth &apos;s life .
i think the whole picture makes sense if you divide it into a few billion steps .
so let &apos;s go back , and that &apos;s 2.5 billion years , and the earth was a big , sterile stone clump with lots of chemicals floating on it .
now , if you look at the way these chemicals were organized , it gives us a pretty good picture of how they did it .
i also think there are theories that are starting to understand how it all started with rna , but i &apos;m going to tell you a simplified story about this , which is that at that time , little oil droplet was swinging around , which had different kinds of recipes for chemicals .
some of these oil droplet contains a special combination of chemicals that allowed them to integrate other chemicals from outside and grow .
all of them were like this , started to divide .
yes , i &apos;m afraid of all these things .
these little oil droplet were the most primitive cell form in the sense .
but these oil droplet were not about living in today &apos;s sense , because every single one of them was just a small , random recipe of chemicals .
and every time it divided , the chemicals in it have spread to unequal quantities .
so each droplet was a little bit different .
in fact , the droplet grew , which was one for the growth of optimal composition faster than others and more integrated more and more chemicals from outside and divided faster .
so these tended to survive longer , and they multiplied more .
so this is just a very simple chemical form of life , but it becomes more interesting when these droplet droplet learned a trick about abstraction .
in a way that we don &apos;t quite understand yet , these droplet droplet has learned the ability to write down information .
they &apos;ve learned to store the recipe of the cell as information in a particular chemical form that we call dna .
in other words , they found a way , in this mindless evolutionary way , that allowed them to write down what they were made of , so that this information could be stored and copied .
we dance in the temple , and we become god . &quot;
and i always had them .
the amazing thing about this is that this way of storing information over the period of 2.5 billion years that it was born stayed the same .
in fact , the recipe for us is our genes , from the exact same code and the same type of writing .
and that is , every being uses the exact same letters and the same code .
we are so far that , just for the pleasure , we can write things ourselves in this code .
and i &apos;ve got 100 micrograms of a white powder here , which i &apos;m trying to keep in airports away from security sperm .
it &apos;s in it -- what i &apos;ve done is i &apos;ve taken this code -- the code is made up of normal letters that we use to symbolize -- and i &apos;ve written my business card on a piece of dna , and i &apos;ve amplified it 10 sophi22 times .
so if anyone wants a hundred million copies of my business card , i have enough for everyone in this room and even for everyone in the world , and it &apos;s right here .
if i &apos;d actually been an egoist , i would have written it on a virus and released it into the room .
so what is the next step ?
the demise of dna was an interesting step .
and i &apos;m afraid of a lot more things that no one would ever know .
and that caused these cells -- that made them happy for another billion years .
but then another very interesting step happened where things became completely different , and that is that these cells started to communicate and share information , so that communities were born of cells .
i don &apos;t know if you knew that , but bacteria can actually exchange their dna .
that &apos;s why , for example , the durability of antibiotics is growing .
some bacteria have figured out how to stay away from penicillin and have written this information together with other bacteria into the dna , and now we have a lot of bacteria that are resistant to penicillin because the bacteria communicate with each other .
this communication now allowed the reasons of communities that were in a certain sense in the same boat ; they were synergetic .
so they either survived together , or they went down together , which meant that if a community was successful , all the individuals of the community were repeated more and preferred by evolution .
the transition site is now where these communities are so close together that they decided to write the recipe for the whole community into a drawing chain on dna .
and the next interesting phase took about another billion years .
at this point , we have multi-cellular communities , communities of many different cell types , which act together as a single organism .
like algae -- and other frightening things .
in fact , we &apos;re also a multi-celled community .
we have a lot of cells that are no longer on their own .
your skin cells are useless without heart cells , muscle cells , brain cells and so on .
so these communities started to evolve so that the level at which evolution was no longer the single cell , but the whole cell community that we call organism .
the next step is now happening within these communities .
the cell communities began to abstract information again .
and they developed special structures that did nothing else but process information within the organism .
and these are the neural structures .
so the neurons are the information processing system that these cell communities have built .
they started to train specialists within the community , special structures , which were responsible for learning , understanding and capturing information .
but when it comes to writing , i &apos;ve been thinking about it recently and asking myself , why ?
and this was the brain and the nervous system of these communities .
this gave them an evolutionary advantage .
because at that point , an individual -- learning happened now within the period of the life of a single organism , rather than that evolutionary period .
so an organism could learn , for example , not to eat a certain fruit , because it tasted bad and made it sick for the last time he ate it .
now , this could happen within the lifetime of a single organism , whereas hundreds of thousands of years before that , because this information had to be evolutionarily learned by the individuals who died because of this fruit , because these information processing structures weren &apos;t there yet .
so the nervous system has the evolutionary process with these particular information structures , because evolution could now happen within an individual .
she could take place within a time learning framework .
what happened after that was that the individual organisms found a way to communicate with each other .
so for example , the most sophisticated version of this kind of communication is human language .
it &apos;s a pretty amazing invention when you think about it .
is that sensible ?
i have a very complicated , messy and confused idea in my head .
i &apos;m sitting here , and i &apos;m basically giving gruesome sounds from me , hoping to create a similar confusion idea in your head , which has a kind of similarity to my original idea .
so we take something very complicated , we turn it into sound , a sequence of sound , and we produce something very complicated in the head of others .
so this allows us to work again as a unified organism .
and what we &apos;ve actually done , we , humanity , is we &apos;ve started to abstract .
we go through the same stages that multiple cell organisms have gone through -- process the abstraction of our methods , how we hold data .
the invention of language , for example , was a small step in this direction .
telephony , computers , video creators , cd-roms and so on are all our specialized mechanisms that we built in our community to be able to handle this information .
and it connects us all together to something much bigger , and it &apos;s also able to evolve faster than we &apos;ve been .
so today , evolution can happen in the time period of microseconds .
is it logical that someone should be expected to do the work that they feel they &apos;re going to do ?
you also saw tys little example of evolution , where he showed a little bit of evolution in the convolution program , right in front of your eyes .
so now we &apos;ve raced the time scales again .
the first steps in history that i told you took a billion years per piece .
the next steps , like the nervous system and the brain , took several hundred million years .
then the next steps , like language and so on , took less than a million years .
and these next steps , like electronics , seem to be just a few decades .
the process feeds on itself , so i think the car catalytic is the word for it -- when something increases its speed of change .
the more it changes , the faster it changes .
and i think that &apos;s what we &apos;re seeing here in this explosion curve .
we see the process that feeds on itself .
and what about the creative enterprises is that they make us unsafe about the state of mind -- in a way that other jobs don &apos;t do ?
i live professionally from building computers , and i know that i could not use the mechanism that i use to build computers , without the advances in the computer technology that have recently been made .
my current activity is to design objects with such a complexity that it &apos;s impossible for me to design them in the traditional sense .
i don &apos;t know what every single transistor does in the connected machine .
it has billions of them .
what i do instead , and what the designers of thinking machines do , is we think at a certain level of abstraction , we give that to the machine , and the machine makes something that goes way beyond our ability , better and faster than we could ever do .
and it does it in part with methods that we don &apos;t even really understand so far .
one of the ways that &apos;s particularly interesting , and which i &apos;ve used a lot lately , is evolution itself .
and we &apos;re installing an evolutionary process in the machine that &apos;s going on in the microsecond space .
to give you an example , in the most extreme cases , we can create a program that &apos;s developed from random instructions .
we say , &quot; computers , please generate a hundred million randomly selected sequences of instructions .
my father , for example , was a chemist , and i can &apos;t remember a situation in his 40 years as a chemist , where he was asked if he was afraid to be a chemist .
now , please perform all of these random instructions , perform all the programs , and eventually choose the ones that are closest to my prescriptions . &quot;
so in other words , i &apos;m going to define first what i want .
let &apos;s say , i want to sorrow numbers , that would be a simple example that i &apos;ve already used for it .
so , find programs that are the most likely to sort of numbers .
of course , the chance in random instructions is very small , by chance , they &apos;re just going to sort numbers , so probably none of the instructions are actually going to do this .
but one of them may , with some luck , put two numbers in the right order .
now , i say , &quot; computers , now take the 10 percent of the sequences that have come to my prescription .
store it off , delete the rest .
now , all the remains that the numbers have best managed to reproduce .
and that &apos;s with a method of recombination , analog for reproduction . &quot;
with your chemical block , john -- how do you do it ?
take two programs , and they make children through the exchange of their subroutines , and the kids inherit the features of the subroutines of the two programs .
so now i have a new generation of programs that have come from combinations of programs that have come a little bit closer to the prescriptions than others .
say , &quot; please repeat this process . &quot;
rating them again .
maybe bring in some mutations .
and try the whole thing again with another generation .
all of these generations need just a few milliseconds .
and so i can go through evolution over millions of years in the computer within a few minutes , or in more complicated cases , a few hours .
and finally , i get programs that can perfectly sorrow numbers .
in fact , these programs are so much more efficient than any program i could have ever written by hand .
it just didn &apos;t happen , you know ?
so when i look at these programs , i can &apos;t tell you how they work .
i tried to understand them .
they &apos;re obscure and strange programs .
but they do the job .
i know , and i &apos;m sure you do the job , because you come out of a series of hundreds of thousands of programs that have done the job .
because their lives depended on whether they were doing the job right .
i sat in a 747 with marvin minsky , and he pulled out a map , and he says , &quot; oh look . look at that .
it says , &quot; this airplane is made up of hundreds of thousands of little bits that work together to make your flight safer . &apos; does it not make you more confident ? &quot;
we know that a process of development is not optimal when it gets too complicated .
so we &apos;re starting to rely on computers for a process that is very different from the classic engineering nature .
and because you &apos;re obsessed , you &apos;re taken in by the mind . how can you be harmed ?
but to be fair -- the group of chemists , over the centuries , have not received the reputation of alcohol addicted manic depressed people .
it allows us to do things with much higher complexity than the normal methods would allow us to produce .
and yet , we don &apos;t really understand the possibilities of this yet .
so , in a way , technology is overwhelming us .
we &apos;re now using these programs to make the computer much faster , so that we &apos;re able to do these processes even faster .
so it creates a feedback .
it &apos;s getting faster and faster , and i think that &apos;s why it seems so confusing .
because all these new technologies today are feeding on themselves .
we take off .
we got to the point where the analog is at the time , as a single cell organisms have evolved into multi-cell organisms .
so we &apos;re the amoeba , and we can &apos;t quite figure out what the hell we &apos;re actually creating here .
but we writers seem to have this kind of reputation , but not only the writers , but the creative of all genres , seem to have this call , mentally immensely unstable .
we &apos;re in the middle of this transition point .
but i really believe that something else comes after us .
i think it &apos;s very humble to say that we are the end product of evolution .
and i think all of us here are part of the creation of whatever comes next .
well , the lunch is before , and i think i &apos;m going to stop here before i get chosen .
my story begins right here in rajasthan , about two years ago .
i was under the starry sky in the desert with sufi singers of mukhtiar ali .
we talked about the fact that nothing has changed since the time of the ancient indian epos , &quot; mahabharata . &quot;
if we wanted to travel in india at the time , we would jump into a car , and we would swirl over the sky .
now we do this with airplanes .
all you have to do is look at the bitter death numbers of really great minds just from the 20th century , the young and often died by your own hand .
at the time , when the great indian warrior prince arjuna durst took a bow , shot in the ground and water .
now we do this with drills and machines .
we came to the conclusion that magic and magic were replaced by machines .
that made me really sad .
i got a little scared of technology .
i was afraid that i could lose the ability to enjoy the sunset with no camera and tweet to my friends .
i found that technology should make magic possible and not kill .
when i was a little girl , my grandfather gave me his little silver pocket clock .
this piece of 50 years old technology became the most magical thing for me .
it became a golden access to a world full of pirates and unfortunate ships and images in my mind .
and even those who didn &apos;t actually do suicide seemed to be really neglected by their talents .
and it seemed to me that our send us clocks and cameras were dreaming of it .
they kept us from being inspired .
and so i went into the world of technology to see how i could use it to enable magic instead of killing .
at 16 , i started to illustrate books .
when i saw the ipad , i saw it as a storytelling device that can connect readers all over the world .
it can know how we hold it .
it can know where we are .
it brings together images and text , animation , sound and touch .
storytelling needs more and more senses .
but what do we do with that ?
norman mailer said just before he died in his last interview : every one of my books killed me a little bit further .
i &apos;m just going to go to khoya , an interactive ipad app .
it says , &quot; put your fingers on every light . &quot;
and so -- it says , &quot; this box belongs ... &quot; i write my name .
and i &apos;m going to be a figure in the book .
every once in a while , a letter falls down for me -- and the ipad knows where i live -- that &apos;s addressed to me .
the kid in me is really excited about this kind of opportunity .
i &apos;ve talked a lot about magic .
i don &apos;t mean magic and kites , but the magic of childhood , the ideas that we all had as children .
fireflies in a glass , i always found quite exciting .
so here you have to tip out the ipad and let the fireflies out .
an extraordinary statement that you can make about your life &apos;s work .
and they were illuminating the way through the rest of the book .
another idea that fascinated me as a child is that a whole galaxy can be put in a single marble .
and so here , every book and every world becomes a little marble that i &apos;m going to draw here to the magical device in the device .
and this opens up a map .
fantasybooks have always had maps , but these maps were static .
this map grows and glows and serves for orientation in the rest of the book .
it also shows up in other places in the book .
i &apos;m going in here .
it &apos;s also important for me to create something that is indian , but also very time-consumed .
these are the apsaras .
but we don &apos;t even shrink when we hear someone say this , because we &apos;ve known this kind of statement for so long . somehow , we &apos;ve incorporated the notion and collectively accepted that creativity and suffering somehow come together , and that art , at the end , always leads to the soul .
we &apos;ve all heard of feen and nymphen , but how many people outside india know their indian colleagues , the apsaras ?
the poor apsaras were caught in indras for thousands of years in an old muffy book .
and we bring them back in a contemporary story for children .
a story about how to deal with new issues , like the environmental crisis .
in the theme of environmental crisis , one big problem for the last 10 years is that kids are sitting in their rooms , on their computers , without going out .
but now , with mobile technology , we can take our children into the natural world with their technology .
in an interaction of the book , you &apos;re sent to a search , and you have to go out and collect natural objects with the camera of the ipad .
as a child , i had collections of sticks , rocks , tiles and shells .
somehow , children don &apos;t do it anymore .
the ritual of childhood is brought back . you have to go out and take a picture of a flower in a chapter .
the question i want to ask everyone here today is : is this idea completely okay for you ?
in another chapter , you have to photograph and tag a piece of tree inde .
so you actually create a digital collection of photographs that you can then put online .
a kid in london shows a picture of a fox and says , &quot; oh , i &apos;ve seen a fox today . &quot;
a kid in india says , &quot; i &apos;ve seen a monkey today . &quot;
this creates a kind of social network around a digital collection of photographs that you &apos;ve actually taken .
there are a variety of ways that magic can connect the world and technology .
in the next book , we &apos;re planning an interaction where you use the video of the ipad , and through augmented reality , you see an animation of 11 that appears on a plant in front of the house .
at one point , the screen is filled with leaves .
you have to make the sound of the wind , blow it away and read the rest of the book .
we all move to a world where the natural forces of technology can get closer and closer to the magic and technology .
do you feel comfortable with that ? because with only one centimeter off , i don &apos;t feel comfortable with this notion at all .
we use the energy of the sun .
we bring our children and closer to the natural world and to the magic and fun and the love of our childhood through the simple medium of a story .
thank you .
this is really an extraordinary honor for me .
i spend most of my time with people in examinations , prisons or death cells .
i spend most of my time with the most socially weakest in the social settlements and in places where there is a lot of hopelessness .
to be here at ted , to see and to hear how stimulating that is , has given me a lot of power .
in the short time here , i realized one thing : ted has an identity .
you can say things that have influence in the world .
and sometimes , when something comes over ted , it gets a meaning and a force that it wouldn &apos;t have otherwise .
i find it disgusting .
i say that because i think identity is very important .
we &apos;ve seen some fantastic presentations .
i think we &apos;ve learned that the words of a teacher matter , but the words of a dedicated teacher are particularly meaningful .
as a doctor , you can do good , but as a careful doctor , you can do more .
and so i want to talk about the power of identity .
i didn &apos;t learn that in my work as a lawyer , by the way .
i learned this from my grandmother .
i became big in a family , a traditional african-american household , dominated by a matriarch , and this matriarch was my grandmother .
she was a keyboard , strong woman , she had an effect .
she had the last word in every family argument .
look at these amazing demonstrations : voodoo acolyths in a trancestate , the glowing coal without burn , an amazing illustration of the ability of the mind to influence the body in a way that prevents it when it &apos;s translated into a state of extreme arousal .
and i find it dangerous . and i don &apos;t want to watch it take over to the next century .
she was also the starting point of many disputes in our family .
she was the daughter of a slave family .
their parents were born in virginia in the 1840s .
it was born around 1880 , and the experience of slavery was very much shaped by the world .
my grandmother was strong , but she was also loving .
when i met her as a little boy , she came up to me and hugged me .
she pushed me so hard that i could barely breathe . then she let me go .
one or two hours later , when i met her , she came up to me and said , &quot; bryan , are you still feeling my hug ? &quot;
and when i said no , she hugged me again , and when i said , &quot; yes , &quot; she left me alone .
she was doing something that you always wanted to be close to .
i think it &apos;s better if we encourage our great creative agents to live .
the only problem with this was that she had 10 children .
my mother was the youngest of her 10 children .
sometimes , if i wanted to spend time with her , it was hard to get her attention .
my cousins were running all around .
i remember , i must have been eight or nine , and i woke up one morning and i walked into the living room . all my cousins were running around .
my grandmother was sitting at the end of the room and staring at me .
first of all , i thought that was a game .
i looked at her and smiled , but she looked very serious .
that went on for about 15 or 20 minutes , and then she got up and she came over to me , and she took me by the hand and she said , &quot; come on , bryan . you and i , we have to talk . &quot;
i still remember it was yesterday .
and i know definitely that for me , in my situation , it would be very dangerous to start to sneak down this dark path of guess , in particular , in the circumstance that i &apos;m in my career right now .
i &apos;ll never forget it .
she took me outside and she said , &quot; bryan , i &apos;m going to tell you something , but you have to promise that you &apos;re not going to tell it . &quot;
i said , &quot; promise , oma . &quot;
she said , &quot; honesty ? &quot; i said , &quot; yes . &quot;
she sat me down , and she looked at me , and she said , &quot; i want you to know i &apos;ve seen you . &quot;
she said , &quot; i think you &apos;re special . &quot;
she said , &quot; i think you can do anything you want to do . &quot;
i &apos;ll never forget that .
then she said , &quot; you just have to promise me three things , bryan . &quot;
i said , &quot; ok , oma . &quot;
that means -- look , i &apos;m pretty young . i &apos;m only about 40 years old .
she said , &quot; first of all , i promised myself that you will always love your mom . &quot;
she said , &quot; your mom is my baby , and you have to promise that you &apos;re always going to take care of them . &quot;
i adored my mother , so i said , &quot; yes , oma , i &apos;m going to do that . &quot;
and then she said , &quot; next , i &apos;m telling you that you &apos;re always going to do the right thing , &quot; even though it &apos;s hard to do the right thing .
i thought , and i said , &quot; yes , oma . i promise . &quot;
and finally , she said , &quot; the last thing you have to promise me is , &quot; you will never drink alcohol . &quot;
well , i was nine years old , and so i said , &quot; yes , oma . i promise . &quot;
i grew up on the land , in the old , rural south , and i have a brother who is a year older and a year younger sister .
when i was about 14 or 15 , my brother came home one day and brought this sixpack of beer , my sister and me , and went to the forest with us .
we were just kind of messing around there as well as we were .
i have maybe another 40 years of work in me .
then he took a swallow of beer and offered my sister one , and she accepted , and then she offered me one .
i said , &quot; no , no , no . all right . do you . i don &apos;t want a beer . &quot;
my brother said , &quot; well , you know , we &apos;re going to do that today , you &apos;re going to do anything else that we do .
i had something , your sister had something . go , drink a beer . &quot;
i said , &quot; i don &apos;t want to . just do it . just do it . &quot;
my brother stared at me .
he said , &quot; what &apos;s going on with you ? well , drink something . &quot;
and then he looked at me in the face and he said , &quot; oh no , you &apos;re not still going crazy about the conversation with grandmother ? &quot;
i said , &quot; what are you talking about ? &quot;
he said , &quot; oma tells all the grandchildren that they &apos;re special . &quot;
and it &apos;s extremely likely that everything i &apos;m going to write from now on is going to be valued by the world as the work that came after the last book &apos;s passing success , right ?
i was devastated .
i &apos;m going to tell you something .
i probably shouldn &apos;t .
this may be transmitted publicly .
i &apos;m 52 years old , and i confess that i &apos;ve never drunk a drop of alcohol .
i &apos;m not saying that because i think it &apos;s virtuous . i &apos;m saying that because identity means power .
if we create the right kind of identity , we can tell the people around us things that they don &apos;t believe first .
we can get them to do things that they thought they couldn &apos;t .
of course , my grandmother would tell all her grandchildren that they &apos;re special .
my grandfather was in jail during the prohibition .
i &apos;m saying it straight , because we &apos;re all kind of friends here -- it &apos;s very likely that my biggest success is behind me .
my uncles died of alcohol induced diseases .
and she believed that these were the topics that we had to take care of .
i &apos;ve tried to say something about our justice system .
this country is different from 40 years ago .
in 1972 , 300,000 people were in prison and in prison .
today , it &apos;s 2.3 million .
the united states today has the highest incarceration rate in the world .
seven million people are discharged from the currency , or with conditional punishment .
in my opinion , mass incarcerations have fundamentally changed our world .
in social weak and black parts of the population , there is despair and hopelessness , because of these changes .
oh , jesus , what a thought !
one out of three male black men between 18 and 30 is in prison , in prison , leaving for a currency , or with a conditional exposure .
in urban communities all over the country -- from los angeles to philadelphia to baltimore to washington -- 50 to 60 percent of all black men are either in prison , in prison , in the prison , in terms of proprietary exposure .
but our system is not only shaped by questions that have to do with race , but it &apos;s also challenged by poverty .
we have a justice system in this country that they treat much better when they &apos;re rich and guilty than poor and innocent .
wealth , not debt , affects the result .
yet , we seem to be very satisfied with this .
a politics of fear and anger has convinced us that these problems are not our problems .
we &apos;ve lost touch .
i think that &apos;s interesting .
there are some very interesting developments .
these are the kinds of thoughts that can get someone to start drinking gin at nine o &apos;clock in the morning , and i don &apos;t want to .
my home state of alabama is constantly pulling you the right to vote when you &apos;re sentenced to the law .
here and today in alabama , 34 percent of the male black population has permanently lost their right to vote .
we predict that in 10 years , the rate of recognition of civil honesty rights is going to be as high as before the election legislation .
the silence is obscure .
i represent children .
many of my clients are very young .
the united states of america is the only country in the world that convicts 30-year-old children to death in prison .
in this country , we have life punishment for children without conditional punishment .
we already have a lot of procedures .
the only country in the world .
i &apos;d rather continue to do this work that i love .
i represent people in death cells .
the death penalty question is an interesting question .
we think because it &apos;s taught us that the real question is : did a human deserve to die for a crime of him ?
that &apos;s a very sensitive question .
but you can also think about it differently , depending on how we see our identity .
the other view is not : did anyone deserve death for a crime , but did we deserve to kill ?
i think that &apos;s fascinating .
the death penalty in america is defined by error .
on nine people we &apos;ve executed , one that we &apos;ve found for innocent , which has been discharged and discharged from the death cell .
an amazing error rate . one in nine innocent .
but what &apos;s interesting is the unique sound of the song , the rhythm of dance in every culture .
well , of all the people that i &apos;ve met , the sophii from the sierra nevada de santa marta in northern colombia , the most extraordinary .
so the question is : how ?
i think that &apos;s fascinating .
we would never let anybody fly on an airplane if for nine airplanes that take off , one would fall off .
but somehow , we can get away from this problem .
it &apos;s not our problem .
it &apos;s not our burden .
it &apos;s not our fight .
i &apos;m talking a lot about these questions .
i &apos;m talking about race and the question of whether we have the right to kill .
and it &apos;s exciting because i &apos;m teaching my students african-american history . i &apos;m talking about slavery .
i &apos;m talking about terrorism , the time at the end of reconstruction , to the beginning of world war ii .
after some time of reflection , it seems to me that in order to continue writing , i have to design a kind of protecting psychological construct .
we don &apos;t really know a lot about it .
but for the african-american in this country , it was a time of terror .
in many areas , people had to be afraid of lynchmobs .
or before bombs .
it was the fear of terror that shaped their lives .
these older people are coming to me now and saying , &quot; mr , stevenson , you &apos;re talking , you &apos;re giving talks . you &apos;re telling people to stop saying that for the first time in the history of our nation , we have to do with terrorism : after 9 / 11 . &quot;
they say , &quot; no , no , tell people that we grew up with it . &quot;
and after terrorism , of course , the race and decades of the rapidly motivated submission and apartheid .
and yet , in our country , there &apos;s a dynamic -- we don &apos;t like to talk about our problems .
we don &apos;t like to talk about our story .
somehow , from now on , i have to find a way to keep a secure distance between me and my very natural adhesive about how the response will be to the written .
and so we don &apos;t really understand the meaning of our actions in historical context .
we &apos;re constantly bumping into each other .
we &apos;re always creating new tensions and conflicts .
it &apos;s hard for us to talk about race , and i think that &apos;s because we &apos;re not willing to approach the process of truth and reconciliation .
in south africa , people have understood that the race is not overcome without the willingness to truth and reconciliation .
even after the genocide in rwanda , there was this willingness , but not in this country .
i &apos;ve given some talks in germany about death penalty .
it was fascinating , because one of the scientists stood up after my talk and said , &quot; you know , it &apos;s deeply disturbing to hear you talk that way . &quot;
he said , &quot; in germany , there &apos;s no death penalty .
and of course , in germany , they can never be there . &quot;
while i &apos;ve been looking for models last year to do this , i &apos;ve also been looking for the past , and i &apos;ve been trying to find other societies to see if they might have better or more sensible ideas about this than we can help to deal with the emotional risks that are connected to creativity .
it got silent . then a woman said , &quot; with our story , it &apos;s impossible that we ever respond to the systematic killing of people .
it would be unaware of us to consciously and acquire people . &quot;
i thought about it .
what it would feel like to live in a world in which the german state would make people , especially if there were a lot of jews under it .
it would be intolerable .
it would be remorse .
and yet , here in this country , in the states of the old south , we &apos;re setting people -- here &apos;s the risk of being convicted of death , 11 times higher , if the victim is white , than if it &apos;s black , 22 times higher , if the prosecuted black , and the victim knows -- in the same states , in which the body is located in the world .
and yet , there &apos;s this mental disconnect .
i think our identity is threatened .
if we don &apos;t deal with this , these difficult topics , then the positive and wonderful things are affected as well .
this quest led me to the ancient greece and the old rome .
we love innovation .
we love technology and creativity .
we love entertainment .
but eventually , these realities are overwhelmed by suffering , abuse , deployment , limitation .
it seems important to me to unite both .
because we ultimately talk about the fact that we need more hope , more engagement , more commitment to be able to pass in a complex world .
for me , it means time to think and talk about the poor , the disadvantaged , the ones that will never be at ted .
but think in a way that is integrated into our own lives .
we all have to believe , after all , things that we can &apos;t see .
we do . as rational as we are , as much as we appreciate intellect .
please follow me , because the circle will close .
innovation , creativity , and development is not just coming out of our heads .
they come from ideas that are driven by the belief in our hearts .
it &apos;s this head-heart connection that i think drives us not only to be open to all the bright and excited things , but also to the dark and problematic .
vaclav havel , the great czech politician , once said this .
when we fought in eastern europe against the oppression , we wanted everything , but what we most needed was hope , a mental orientation , the willingness to be sometimes in hopeless places , and witness .
this mental orientation is the core of what i think the ted communities need to be engaged in .
there &apos;s no limitation to technology and design that allows us to be fully human as long as we also have eyes and ears for poverty , limitation and injustice .
i want to warn you . this kind of identity requires a lot more of us than if we didn &apos;t care about it .
she &apos;s going to touch her deeply .
as a young lawyer , i had the great privilege to meet rosa parks .
but in ancient greece and rome , people didn &apos;t believe that creativity comes from people , ok ?
woman parks kept coming back to montgomery , where she had two of her oldest friends , these older women , johnnie carr , who had organized the montgomery-busykott -- an incredible african-american -- and virginia durr , a white , whose husband , clifford durr , dr. king .
so these women were meeting and just talking .
every once in a while , ms. carr called me and said , &quot; bryan , ms. parks comes to the city . we want to talk .
do you want to come in and listen ? &quot;
and i said , &quot; yes , very much . &quot;
she said , &quot; and what are you going to do when you &apos;re here ? &quot;
i said , &quot; i &apos;m going to listen . &quot;
and i went over and just listened .
it was always so inspiring , so whispering .
one day i was sitting there listening to these women , and after a few hours , ms. parks turned to me and said , &quot; well , bryan , tell me what the initiative is for the same right . &quot;
they believed that creativity was a kind of divine spirit that comes to people for a distant , unknown source -- for unexplained , unknown reasons .
what are they trying to do ? &quot;
i started my usual talk .
i said , &quot; we &apos;re trying to do it against injustice .
wr wants to help people who have been innocent convicted .
we want to fight bias and discrimination in the crimination system .
we want to eliminate lifelong sentences without conditional punishment for children .
we want to do something about death penalty .
we want to reduce the number of prisoners .
we want to eliminate mass incarcerations . &quot;
i gave my beautiful talk , and after that , she looked at me and she said , &quot; mhmm . mhmm . mhmm . &quot;
the greeks called these divine dienery spirits of creativity .
she said , &quot; it &apos;s going to make you very , very tired . &quot;
then woman carr leaned up to me , put a finger on my face , and he said , &quot; and so you have to be very , very brave . &quot;
and that &apos;s why i think the ted community should be a braver .
we need to find ways to face these challenges : these problems , this suffering .
because ultimately , our humanity depends on our humanity .
in my work , i learned very simple things .
i &apos;ve learned a couple of very simple things .
that we &apos;re all more than the worst we &apos;ve ever done .
i think that &apos;s true for every human being on the planet .
if you &apos;re lying , it &apos;s not just a liar .
socrates are known to believe that he had a demonstration that would tell him that he was running out of the way .
if someone takes something that they don &apos;t hear , they &apos;re not just a thief .
even who kills someone is not just a murderer .
and because it is , there is a fundamental human dignity that has to respect the law .
i also believe that in many parts of this country , and certainly in many parts of the world , the opposite of poverty is not wealth .
i don &apos;t think so .
i believe that in too many places , the opposite of poverty is justice .
and finally , i believe that even though it &apos;s so dramatic , so beautiful and inspiring , and so inspiring , we &apos;re not going to be measured by our technology , not by the things we &apos;re developing , not by our intellect and our mind .
finally , a society is not measured by how they treat their rich and powerful and privileged , but by how they deal with the poor , the convicted , the incarcerated .
because in this context , we begin to understand the really amazing things that make us up .
sometimes i lose the balance . i end up with a story .
the offspring of the ancient tyrannian civilization , which populated the caribbean coastal plain of colombia , and as a result of conquest , this people returned to an isolated volcanic massive that goes up above the caribbean coastal plain .
the roman had the same idea , called this kind of bodily creative mind .
sometimes i push too much .
i get tired , like all of us .
sometimes these ideas are moving ahead of our thinking in a very important way .
i represent these children who were convicted of very hard punishment .
i go to the study prison and visit a client who may be 13 or 14 years old , who is supposed to be in court as an adult .
and then i wonder , how could this happen ?
how can a judge turn someone into something they &apos;re not ?
the judge looks at him as an adult , but i see a child .
one night , i stayed up too long , and i thought , my god , if a judge can turn us into something else , it must have magic forces .
right , bryan , the judge has magic power .
that &apos;s great . the romans didn &apos;t really think that a genius was a particularly smart individual .
you should have some wishes .
and because it was late , and i couldn &apos;t really think it , i started working on a post .
i had a 14-year-old , poor black boy as a client .
and i started with this brief , and the headline said , &quot; contract to treat my poor , 14-year-old black client as a privileged , white , 75-year-old top manager . &quot;
in my contract , i explained that misbehaving of the state sanctity and the police and the failures were to take into account .
there was a crazy line about the fact that there &apos;s nothing in this country that &apos;s only misbehaving .
the next morning , i woke up and i didn &apos;t know if i had just dreamed this crazy contract or actually written it .
and to my dismay , i had not only written it , but sent it to the court .
a few months went over , and i had just forgotten everything .
but finally , i decided , my god , i have to go to the court and do this crazy case .
they believed that a genius was this kind of magical divine creature that was believed to be literally living in the walls of an artist -- sort of like dobby , the house 11 -- who came out and the artist at work would be sort of invisible and designing the result of the work .
i got in the car , and i was really overwhelmed -- overwhelmed .
so i went to the court .
and i thought that was going to be so hard , so painful .
finally , i got out of my car , and i went up the staircase to the court .
when i lifted the staircase to the court , there was an elderly , black man , the janitor in the court .
when he saw me , he came over to me and he said , &quot; who are you ? &quot;
i said , &quot; i &apos;m a lawyer . &quot; he said , &quot; you &apos;re a lawyer ? &quot; i said , &quot; yes . &quot;
he came up to me and hugged me .
then he whispered to my ear .
he said , &quot; i &apos;m so proud of you . &quot;
this is brilliant -- there it is , there is the distance i was talking about -- the psychological construct that protects you from the consequences of your work .
and i have to say , it gave me power .
it touched something very deep inside me , identity , the ability of each individual , to contribute to a community , to a perspective of hope .
well , i walked into the courtroom .
as soon as the judge saw me .
he said , &quot; mr. stevenson , did you do this crazy assignment ? &quot;
i said , &quot; yes . &quot; and then we started discussing .
more and more people came in because they were angry .
that i had written these crazy things .
police officers came in and deputy state lawyers and office workers .
in the hand , the courthouse was full of people who were angry that we were talking about skin color , about poverty , about inequality .
and everybody knew it worked that way , right ?
from my point of view , i looked up and down the janitor .
he kept looking through the window , and he could hear the whole tohuwabohu .
he went up and down .
after all , this older black man came in with a very troubled facial rest in the courtroom and sat right behind me , almost on the defense bank .
ten minutes later , the judge announced a break .
during the break , a police officer came in , and it bothered that the janitor was in the courtroom .
this deputy ran over to the older black .
he said , &quot; jimmy , what do you do in the courtroom ? &quot;
the older black man stood up . he looked at the deputy , and then he looked at me , and he said , &quot; i &apos;ve come here to tell this young man , don &apos;t lose the target from the eyes . don &apos;t give up . &quot;
i &apos;ve come to the ted because i think many of you have understood that the moral pendulum of the universe is wiping out , but that it &apos;s going to increase justice .
the artist of aging was protected from certain things , like , too much narcissism , right ?
that as humans , we are not completely evolved unless we care about human rights and basic values .
that all of us survive is connected to the survival of every single one .
that we need to connect our visions of technology and design , of entertainment and creativity to humanity , pity and justice .
and most of all , i just want to say to those of you who see this in the same way , don &apos;t lose your eyes . don &apos;t give up .
you &apos;ve seen in this audience , this community , an obvious wish , and you &apos;ve heard about helping them and doing something .
what else can we do ?
bryan stevenson : well , there are opportunities everywhere .
if you live in california , in this spring , there &apos;s a folk decision about actually doing an effort , to redirect some of the money electricity that otherwise flows into the politics of punishment .
for example , in california , in the next five years , you &apos;re going to have a billion dollars for death penalty , a billion dollars .
and yet , 46 percent of all fatalities don &apos;t end with arrest .
if your work was brilliant , you wouldn &apos;t be able to look at it all for you , and everyone knew you had this indisembodied genius that helped you .
56 percent of all rape cases don &apos;t come to court .
there &apos;s a chance to do something here .
this reference will propose to invest the money in more security forces and security .
i think there are opportunities everywhere .
over the last three decades , the crime rate in america has declined immensely .
this fact is often put in a context with the increased incarceration numbers .
what would you say to someone who believes that ?
well , in fact , the number of violence has not changed very much .
most of the mass incarceration in this country was not really in the class of violence .
it was the misguided cross against drugs .
when your work flew -- not entirely your mistakes , right ?
so the dramatic high numbers come from the prisoners .
we &apos;ve let ourselves go of the rhetoric of punishment .
now we have &quot; three-legislation &quot; laws that bring people behind bars forever , for a bicycle theft , for the theft of a little good , rather than that you force them to give things back to the victims .
i think we need to do more to help people who have become victims of a crime , not less .
and i think our current punishment philosophy doesn &apos;t help anybody .
i think that &apos;s what we need to change .
bryan , they really made a string here to vibrate .
they &apos;re an inspiring personality .
thank you for being at ted . thank you .
bin laden &apos;s death is an increased risk of drive .
everybody knew your genius was a little shame .
two : famine in somalia . speaker three : o.c. spray of the police .
bad cartels . speaker 5 : dangerous cruise ships .
six : social decline . speaker 7 : 65 deaths .
tsunami warning . speaker 9 : cyber-attacks
drug war . weapons of mass destruction . tornado .
recession . gridlock . doomsday . egypt . syria .
crisis . death . disaster .
oh my god .
so these are just a few of the clips that i &apos;ve collected over the last six months -- but it could have been the last six days , or the last six years .
the fact is that the media preferences to show us negative issues , because our minds are paying attention to these very topics .
so people in the west have really been thinking about creativity for a long time .
and there &apos;s also a very good reason for that .
every second every day , our senses catch much more information than our brains can ever process .
and because we &apos;re not more important than our survival , the first stop for all the information is part of our temporal lobe , the amygdala .
so the amygdala is our early warning system , our risk detector .
it &apos;s sorting and coming through all the information in search of any kind of indication of danger in our environment .
so when we see the news , we prefer to look for negative news .
and the old adage , &quot; when it bleeds , the demand goes up , &quot; is very true .
now , with all of our digital devices , which seven days a week , 24 hours a day , are putting all of these negative messages , it &apos;s not a miracle that we &apos;re pessimistic .
it &apos;s not a miracle that everybody thinks the world is getting worse and worse .
but maybe that &apos;s not the case .
in a bloodshed continent , these people were the only ones that were never conquered by the spaniards .
and then the renaissance came along , and everything changed . we had this big idea . and this big idea was : let &apos;s put the human individual at the center of the universe -- all the gods and mysteries . and there &apos;s no room for mystical creatures to take the commands from the divine .
maybe that &apos;s the reality .
maybe the tremendous progress that we &apos;ve made in the last century is accelerating through a series of forces , so strong that we will be able to create a world of abundance in the next three decades .
well , i &apos;m not saying that we don &apos;t have big problems -- climate crisis , biodiversity loss , water and energy problems -- we already have them .
and as humans , we &apos;re much better at looking at problems in a very long way , but eventually overcoming them .
let &apos;s see what we &apos;ve achieved in the last century , so that we can predict the development .
in the last 100 years , the average life expectancy has more than doubled that has adapted to inflation in the average income of the world &apos;s population has tripled .
child mortality has declined by a tenth .
and then the food , electrical transportation and communication costs , they &apos;ve reduced by a lot of times .
steve pinker showed us that we &apos;re living in a very peaceful time in human history .
and according to charles kenny , the literacy rate has gone from 25 percent to 80 percent in the last 130 years .
it &apos;s the beginning of rational humanism , and people started to believe that creativity came completely from their own individual .
we live in a really extraordinary time .
and a lot of people forget this .
and we &apos;re increasing our expectations all the time .
in fact , we &apos;ve redefined poverty .
remember that a lot of americans who live below the poverty line have access to electricity , water , toilets , refrigerators , tv , mobile phones , air conditioning and cars .
the richest capitalists in the last century , the world &apos;s imperators , could never have dreamed of such luxury goods .
the basis for a lot of this is technology , and these are growing expotentially .
my good friend ray kurzweil has shown us that every tool that &apos;s going to be an information technology , on the moore &apos;s law curve , the price performance rate doubles every 12 to 24 months .
that &apos;s why your cell phone in your pocket costs about a million times less and is thousands of times faster than a supercomputer in the &apos; 70s .
now look at this curve .
for the first time in history , you hear people call this or this artist a genius -- instead of having a genius .
this is moore &apos;s law over the last hundred years .
notice two things about this curve .
first of all , how smooth it is -- in good or bad times , war or peace , recession , depression and high conjuncture .
this is the result of faster computers building faster computers .
it slows down for none of our big problems .
and also , despite their logarithmic process on the left , it &apos;s going upward .
so the growth rate itself is accelerating .
and on this curve , on the back of moore &apos;s law , we find a number of extraordinary technologies that are available to all of us .
&quot; cloud-computing , &quot; something my friends at autodesk call infinite-computing , sensors and networks , robots , 3d printers that allow personal production on our planet , synthetic biology , fuels , vaccine and food , digital medicine , nano-materials and artificial intelligence .
how many of you have seen the victory of ibm &apos;s supercomputer watson at risk ?
i have to tell you , i think that was a big mistake .
that was great .
i went through the newspapers and looked for the best headlines i could find .
i love this one : &quot; watson forces human adversaries . &quot;
risk is not a simple game .
it &apos;s about understanding the nuances of language .
imagine that this artificial intelligence is available to every owner of a mobile phone .
four years ago , ray kurzweil and i started a new university here at ted called singularity university .
we teach our students all of these technologies , with special focus on how they can be used to solve the great challenges of humanity .
and every year , we ask the students to create companies , products and services that can positively affect the lives of billions of people in a decade .
think about the fact that a group of students today can influence the lives of billions of people .
you know ? i think to allow a mere person to think he or she &apos;s like the vessel , like the pelvis and the essence and the source of all the divine , creative , unknown , infinite mysteries is a little too much responsibility to bring them up to a fragile , human psyche .
30 years ago , this would have sounded ridiculous .
today , we can point to dozens of companies that have done this .
when i think about creating abundance , i don &apos;t mean a life of luxury for everyone on the planet ; it &apos;s about creating a life of opportunity .
it &apos;s about creating abundance from scarce goods .
because scarcity is contextual , and technology is a resource that is liberating .
here &apos;s an example .
this is the story of napoleon iiiii in the middle of the 18th century .
he &apos;s the guy on the left .
he invited the king of siam to dinner .
napoleon &apos;s soldiers got silver brick , napoleon himself got gold brick .
it &apos;s like asking someone to swallow the sun .
but the king of siam got aluminum brick .
aluminum , at that time , was the most valuable metal on the planet , more valuable than gold and plain .
this is why the dome of the tone monument was made out of aluminum .
even though aluminum is 8.3 percent of the earth &apos;s mass , it doesn &apos;t appear to be pure metal .
it &apos;s connected by oxygen and silicon .
but then the technology of electrolysis was developed and made aluminum manufacturing so cheap that we use it with our throwaway mentality .
then let &apos;s project this analogy into the future .
we think of energy scarcity today .
ladies and gentlemen , we live on a planet that &apos;s filled with 5,000-times more energy than we use every year .
16 terawatts of energy prashes to the surface of the earth every 88 minutes .
this disfigures and distorts all of egos , and it creates all of these unreachable expectations for success .
it &apos;s not scarcity , the problem is accessibility .
and there &apos;s good news .
this year , for the first time , they were able to reduce the cost of solar power in india by 50 percent of the same electricity -- 8.8 rupees compared to 17 rupees .
the cost of solar energy fell 50 percent in the last year .
this has been published last month with a study that shows that by the end of this decade in the sunny areas of the united states , solar energy will cost six cents a kwh , compared to 15 cents a national average .
and if we have an overload of energy , we will also have water in abundance .
let &apos;s talk about water wars .
remember , when carl sagan turned the voyager spacecraft in 1990 , when it was passed by saturn , back to earth ?
he took a famous photograph . what did it mean ?
&quot; a pale blue dot . &quot;
i think this success pressure has devastated our artists for the last 500 years .
because we live on a water planet .
we live on a planet that &apos;s 70 percent covered with water .
yes , it &apos;s 97.5 percent saltwater , two percent are eaten , and we &apos;re fighting 0.5 percent of the water on the planet , but there &apos;s also hope .
and there are new technologies , not in 10 or 20 years , but now .
they &apos;re new nanotechnology on the way , nano-materials .
and from a conversation this morning with dean kaman , one of the innovators of do it yourself , i want to share with you something -- he gave me the permission -- his technology , which is called &quot; slingshot , &quot; and which many of you may have heard of . it &apos;s the size of a refrigerator at the student &apos;s home .
it can produce a thousand liters of clean drinking water a day from different sources -- whether saltwater , polluted water , latrine -- and all of that for less than two cents a gallon .
the head of coca-cola has just agreed to start a big test project with a hundred units in the developing world .
and if everything goes well , and i &apos;m very confident , coca-cola will apply this technology globally in 206 countries around the planet .
this is technology support innovation that is available today .
and , if that &apos;s true , and i think it &apos;s true , the question is .
and we &apos;ve also seen this in mobile phones .
oh my god , we &apos;re going to get to the 70 percent covering rate of mobile phones in the developing world to the end of 2013 .
just remember that a masai warrior with a cell phone in the middle of kenya has a better mobile communication than president reagan did 25 years ago .
and if you look at google with your smartphone , you have more access to knowledge and information than president clinton did 15 years ago .
they live in a world that has information and communication in abundance , as nobody could have predicted .
and it &apos;s even better , the things that you and i spent several thousand dollars on -- gps , hd video and photograph , libraries of books and music , technology for medical diagnostics -- are now literally being dematerialized and cheaper in your cell phone .
and the best part is perhaps what we &apos;re expecting in health .
last month , i had the pleasure of announcing the so-called &quot; $ 10 million qualcomm tricorder x prize . &quot;
we challenge teams around the world to connect all of these technologies together in a cell phone so that you can talk to the device , because it &apos;s equipped with ai , you can test your blood values , you can test your blood values .
and to win , the device has to diagnose better than a team of highly skilled doctors .
can we change it ?
imagine this device , in the middle of a developing country , where there are no doctors , but 25 percent of the disease burden and 1.3 percent of the health care workers .
if this device sequences a rna- or dna virus that &apos;s not known , it calls the health agency and prevents a pandemic from their outbreak .
but now the biggest force that will lead us to a world of abundance .
i call it the &quot; the coming billion . &quot;
the white lines are the population .
we &apos;ve just crossed the 7-billion-dollar brand .
and just by the way , the biggest insurance against a population explosion is a better education and nutrition around the world .
in 2010 , we had just under two billion people online .
by 2020 , we &apos;re going to go from two billion internet users to five billion internet users .
three billion new minds that we &apos;ve never heard of before will connect to global communication .
to this day , they &apos;re governed by a ritual priesthood , but the education of the priesthood is very extraordinary .
maybe going back to an ancient understanding of the relationship between people and the mystery of the creative .
what do these people need ?
what are they going to consume ? what are they going to want ?
and instead of economic gridlock , i see one of the greatest economic markings in history .
these people represent several trillion dollars that will flow into the global economy .
and they &apos;re going to be healthier by using the tricoder , and they &apos;re going to be more educated by the khan academy , and by having the opportunity to use 3d printers and infinite computing , and be so much more productive than ever before .
so what can three billion growing , healthy , educated , productive members of the human community bring us ?
how about a phrase of new , never before heard .
how about giving a voice to the oppressed , wherever you are , to pay attention to it and to create change , for the first time ?
what are these three billion people going to bring in ?
how about contributions that we can &apos;t even predict ?
maybe not .
one of the things that i learned from the x prize is that small teams that are motivated by passion and focus can create extraordinary things , things that big companies and governments could only create in the past .
i want to end with a story that really got me excited .
there &apos;s a program that some of you may know .
it &apos;s a game called foldit .
it was developed at the university of washington in seattle .
and it &apos;s a game where people can take a sequence of amino acids to explore how the protein will evolve .
and depending on its behavior , we can predict the structure and function .
and this is very important in medical research .
so far , this has been a problem for supercomputers .
and this game was played by university professors and so on .
maybe we can eradicate the thought from 500 years of rational humanism in an 18-minute talk .
and there are now hundreds of thousands of people who have played the game online .
and it showed that these days , the human pattern recognition is better at folding the proteins than the best supercomputers .
and when these people came and looked at who is the best protein folder in the world , this was not a mit professor , nor was a caltech student , it was somebody from england , manchester , a woman who was working as a assistant in the business manual in a rehab clinic at night , and was the best protein order in the world .
ladies and gentlemen , what gives me enormous confidence in our future , is the fact that we have more power today than individuals to face the great challenges of our planet .
we have access to tools with exponential technology .
we have the passion of a diy innovator .
we have the capital of techno-philanthropy .
and we have three billion new heads that we can work with online to deal with the new challenges , and to do what &apos;s needed .
we expect a couple of extraordinary decades .
thank you .
and there are certainly people in this audience who would actually report really legitimate scientific doubt about the idea of -- basically -- fees that would follow people and apply feeders to their projects and so on .
i think we need to do something about a changing piece of medical culture .
and i think it starts with a medical doctor , and that &apos;s me .
and maybe i &apos;ve been in business for a long time , so that i can allow myself to give up a piece of my own false prestige to do that .
but before i get to the actual theme of my talk , let &apos;s start with a little baseball .
hey , why not ?
we &apos;re close to the season end , and we &apos;re moving towards the world cup .
we all love baseball , right ?
baseball is full of great statistics .
and there are hundreds of them .
&quot; moneyball &quot; appears soon , and it &apos;s about statistics , and to use it to create a great baseball team .
i &apos;m probably not going to be able to take all of you on this journey .
i &apos;m going to refer to a statistic that i hope most of you have heard .
it &apos;s the average performance of the bat .
we &apos;re talking about a 300 if a bat hits 300 .
that means that the player is going to beat three out of 10 beats .
that means beat the ball in the field , it comes up , it &apos;s not caught , and who tried to throw the ball to the first base , didn &apos;t do it in time , and the runner was safe .
three out of 10 .
do you know what a 300th in major league baseball is called ?
well , really good , maybe an all-star .
do you know what you call a 400th ?
this is someone who &apos;s going to meet , by the way , four out of 10 .
but the question i want to throw up is : why not ?
legendary -- like ted williams legendary -- the last major league baseball player who met over 400 times during a regular season .
let &apos;s transfer back to my medical world , where i feel a lot more comfortable , or maybe a little less comfortable after i talked to you about it .
suppose you have a blind inflammation , and you &apos;re transferred to an operator whose average performance is 400 in terms of blindness .
somehow it doesn &apos;t work , right ?
suppose you live in a particular remote area , and you have a beloved person with clogged heart disease vessels , and your home physician has a cardiologist whose average performance is at 200 .
but , you know what ?
it &apos;s much better this year . it &apos;s on the rising branch .
and she &apos;s beating a 257 .
somehow it doesn &apos;t work .
but i &apos;m going to ask you a question .
why not think about it that way ?
what do you think of as the average performance of a cardiologist or a nurse or an orthopedic , a birthday worker , should be a rescue assistant ?
1,000 , very good .
the truth is that nobody in all of medicine knows what a good surgeon or doctor or rescue should be .
but what we do is , though , each of you , including me , we send out into the world with the claim to be perfect .
never make a mistake , but nobody is thinking about the details of how this should be done .
and that &apos;s the message that i took in medical school .
i was a obsessive student .
once in high school , a fellow student said that brian goldmann would learn for a bloodtest .
and so was it .
and i learned in my little dairy , in the sisters residence at the toronto general hospital , not far from here .
because it makes as much sense as anything else i &apos;ve heard about when it comes to explaining the absolutely insane capability of the creative process .
i learned everything memorized .
in my anatomy lecture , i learned the origins and runners of every muscle , every branch of every artery that takes away from the aorta , obscure and ordinary differential diagnosis .
i even knew the differential diagnosis to classify renal tubula azican .
and all the time , i was collecting more and more knowledge .
and i was good , i graduated with cum laude .
and i left medical school with the impression that if i knew everything and knew everything , or at least as much as i could , as close to complete as possible , that i was immune to making mistakes .
and it worked for a while , until i met a woman printer .
i resisted at a teaching hospital here in toronto as a woman , printing to me to the emergency department of the hospital .
at that point , i was admitted to the cardiological layer in the cardiological service .
and it was my assignment when the emergency staff was looking for cardiological advice to study the emergency patient .
it &apos;s a process that -- as anyone who has ever tried to do something -- in other words , everybody here -- doesn &apos;t always act reasonably .
and to give feedback to my doctor .
i studied woman printer , and she was in breathing .
and when i listened to her , she made boggling sounds .
and when i listened to her chest with the stethoscope , i could hear a cracking sound on both sides , which told me that she suffered from congestive heart failure .
this is a state in which the heart fails , instead of pumping all the blood on , a part of the blood is stuck in the lung and filling this gradually , so the shorthand came .
and that wasn &apos;t a hard thing to do to diagnose .
i put them on , and i got the treatment .
i gave her aspirin . i gave her medicine to take the pressure of the heart .
i gave her medicine , which we call diuretics , water pills , so that they &apos;re calling the liquid .
and over a period of one and a half to two hours , she started to feel better .
in fact , sometimes it can feel really paranormal .
i felt really good .
and i made my first mistake ; i sent it home .
in fact , i made two mistakes .
i sent them home without talking to my doctor .
i didn &apos;t take the stop and do what i should have been , what a call would have been in my chief to explain it with him , so that he had a chance to take a picture of his own .
and he knew her , he would have been able to control additional information to her .
maybe i did it with good reason .
maybe i didn &apos;t want to be the aid doctor .
maybe i wanted to be so successful and so able to take responsibility that i was acting like that , and so i would be able to take care of my patients without having to contact them .
my second mistake was worse .
the young acolyths are separated from their families at the age of three and four , and in a shadow world of the eclipse , in stone huts at the expense of glaciers for 18 years , and two periods of nine years at a time , selected to mimic the nine months of pregnancy that they were living in the lap of their conductive mother , they are now spending metamorphorphorphically in the lap of the great mother .
i had such an encounter recently when i met the extraordinary american poet ruth stone , who is now over 90 , but who was a poet all of her life , and she told me that when she grew up in the villages of virginia , she was working outside in the fields , she said she could feel and hear how a poem came across the landscape .
so that i sent them home , i missed a quiet voice in me trying to tell me , &quot; goldman , no good idea . don &apos;t do that . &quot;
in fact , i was so lacking self-confident that i asked the nurse who was taking care of a woman , &quot; do you think it &apos;s okay when she goes home ? &quot;
and the nurse thought about it and said , in fact , &quot; yeah , i think she &apos;s going to do well . &quot;
i remember it as if it was yesterday .
so i signed the disposal papers and an ambulance and a rescue assistant came home and brought them home .
and i went back to work .
the rest of the day , the night , i had this nagging feeling in my stomach .
but i continued to work .
and at the end of the day , i grabbed my stuff , i left the hospital , and i went to the parking lot to go home with the car when i did something i didn &apos;t do otherwise .
i went home through the emergency department on my way .
she said it would be like a thundering train of air .
and there , another nurse , not the sister who had seen printer after woman , but another three words to me , and those three words fear most of the emergency doctors i know .
other medical professionals also fear them , but the emergency care is particularly because we see the patients so volatile .
the three words were : remember ?
&quot; remember the patient you sent home ? &quot;
asked the nurse what was going on .
&quot; so she &apos;s back , &quot; she said in this particular tone .
so she was back .
she was back , and she was dying .
about an hour after she got home , after i sent her home , she collapsed , and the family called 911 , and the rescue assistants brought her back to the emergency room with a 50 blood pressure , which is a dangerous shock state .
she was barely breathing , and she was running blue .
it would roll across the country to you .
the emergency staff moved all the strands .
they gave their blood pressure elevators .
they hooked them up to the respiratory machine .
i was shocked , and i was shocked to the inside .
and i lived through this rollercoaster because it came to the intensive care after the stability , and i hoped it would recover .
and after two , three days , she realized that she would never wake up again .
she had suffered an untreatable brain damage .
her family gathered .
and over the course of the next eight or nine days , they were given to the happened .
on the new day , they listed her -- woman printer , a woman , a mother and grandmother .
she felt when it came , because it would make the earth under her feet to pray .
it &apos;s said that you never forget the names of those who die .
and that was the first time i learned this myself .
the next couple of weeks , i made a suggestion , and i learned for the first time the unhealthy shame that exists in our medical culture -- i felt myself alone , isolated , not the kind of healthy shame that you feel , because you can &apos;t talk to the colleagues .
you all know the healthy shame , if you give a secret to the best friend &apos;s prize , even though it &apos;s swinging you on conspiracy , and then you get caught , and the best friend is confronting you with it and having a terrible discussion , but when you end up with the bad conscience , and you swore that you never make such a mistake again .
if you do rejuvenation and you never make the mistake again .
this is the kind of educational shame .
the unhealthy way i &apos;m talking about it is the one that makes you sick in the first place .
it &apos;s the one who tells you that not what you &apos;ve done is bad , but you &apos;re bad .
and that &apos;s what i felt .
and it wasn &apos;t because of my chief , it was very dear .
she knew she could only do one in such a moment , and that was , in her words , running like the devil .
he was talking to the family , and i &apos;m sure he was smoking the woods and making sure that i wouldn &apos;t be sued .
but i continued to ask myself these questions .
why didn &apos;t i ask the doctor ? why did i send her home ?
and then in my worst moments , how could i make such a stupid mistake ?
why did i go to medicine ?
slowly but surely , it set out .
i started feeling better .
and then on a weekly day , there was a hole in the clouds , and the sun broke out , and i said , maybe i can feel better again .
and i negotiated with myself that if i doubled my efforts to perfect and never again made a mistake that the voice could distort .
and she did .
she ran like the devil to the house while she was tracked by this poem , and the only thing she had to do was get to a sheet of paper and a pen , so she could catch it when it was going through her and hold it on the sheet .
and i continued to work .
and then it happened again .
two years later , i had service in the emergency room in a communal hospital north of toronto , and i looked at a 25-year-old man with a rich rage .
it was a lot of going on , and i was in a hurry .
he always showed up here .
i looked in the picks , and it was a little pink .
and i gave him a prescription for penicillin and sent him away .
and even as he walked out of the door , he showed up on his rake .
two days later , i came to my next emergency service , and my ceo asked me for a conversation in her office .
and she said the three words : do you remember ?
in other paintings , she wasn &apos;t fast enough . she ran and ran and ran , but she didn &apos;t reach the house , and the poem rolled through her , and she missed it . she said it would move over the country and , as she said , look for another poet .
&quot; do you remember the patient with the refined rake ? &quot;
it turns out he had a streptococccus infection .
he had a potentially life-threatening disease called epiglottitis .
you can google that , but it &apos;s not an infection of the raw , it &apos;s the upper breathing path , and it causes the locking of the breathing paths .
and fortunately , he didn &apos;t die .
he got intracted antibotica and recovered a few days later .
and i went back through the same torture of shame and self-doubt , felt free and went to work until it happened again and again and again .
in an emergency layer , i &apos;ve overlooked two times a blind inflammation .
there &apos;s a lot of stuff going on , especially if you think that you &apos;re working in a hospital that had only 14 patients per night at that time .
in both cases , i didn &apos;t send them home , and there was probably no deprivation in their treatment .
and then there were these moments -- i &apos;ll never forget the part -- she said that there were moments when she nearly missed it .
one thought i had kidney stones .
i ordered the x-ray of the kidneys , and when that was not found , my colleague , when the patient came back and found a hardening in the lower right sector , and called the operators .
the other one had strong diarrhea .
i ordered fluids to rehydrate him , and i asked my colleagues to review him as well .
and he did , and when he found a hardening in the lower right sector , he called the operators .
in both cases , they were doing surgery , and they were doing well .
both of these cases were native to me , and they were asking me .
and i would be happy to tell you that my worst mistakes happened only in the first five years , which many of my colleagues say is total nonsense .
some of my claims have happened in the last five years .
alone , damaged and not supported .
so she runs into the house , and she looks for the paper , and the poem goes through her , and she grabs a pen just as she goes through it , and then -- she said -- it was as if she reached for it with her other hand and grabs it .
here &apos;s the problem : if i can &apos;t close with my errors and talk about them , if i can get the quiet voice that tells me what really can &apos;t find , then how can i share it with my colleagues ?
how can i teach you my mistakes so that they don &apos;t do the same ?
if i went into a room -- like right now , i don &apos;t know what you &apos;re thinking about me .
when was the last time you heard about someone who was talking about failures about failure ?
oh yeah , you go to a cocktail party , and you might hear about some other doctor , but you won &apos;t hear somebody talk about your mistakes .
if i were to go into a room full of colleagues and ask for their immediate support , and tell them what i just told you , i would probably not get to the end of the second story before it really got to you uncomfortable , anybody would have a joke , they would change the topic and forget the rest .
and in fact , if i knew or my colleagues that an orthopedic in my hospital would have taken off the wrong leg , believe me that i had trouble looking into his eyes .
this is the system that we live in .
it &apos;s a completely denial of errors .
it &apos;s a system in which there are two basic positions -- the ones that make mistakes and the ones that don &apos;t make them -- the ones that constrain sleep deprivation and the ones that have bad results and the results that have good results .
she got the poem on his tail , and she pulled it back into her body , and she took it over to the sheet of paper .
it &apos;s almost like an ideological response like antibodies that are attacking a human .
and there &apos;s the idea that if we put those who make errors out of medicine , that we have a safe system .
but there are two problems with this .
in my about 20 years of the medical sensation and journalism that i &apos;ve done a personal medical trial on medical errors and false treatments to learn everything i could for one of my first papers , which i wrote for the toronto star of my show , &quot; white coat , black art . &quot;
and what i learned is that errors are absolutely incomprehensible .
we &apos;re working in a system where errors are happening every day , where one in 10 medications is either a false or a false dose , where hospital infections are getting more and more and more frequent and causing devastation or dead .
in this state , about 24,000 canadians die of common errors .
in the united states , the institute of medicine is quoting the number of 100,000 .
both of them are strong understatements , because we don &apos;t look at the problem as well as we should .
and this is the crux .
and all this time , they are culturally introduced to the values of their society , values that sustain the claim that their prayers and only their prayers , the cosmic -- or we could say the ecological -- balance .
in these opportunities , the poem came in and intact on paper -- but backwards -- from the last word to the first .
in a hospital system where the medical knowledge doubles every two to three years , we can &apos;t keep up .
sleep deprivation is ubiquitous .
we can &apos;t get rid of it .
we have a cognitive error , so that we can take a perfect pathology course for a patient with breast pain .
then i take the same patient with a chest pain , i sweat it , and i shoot it , and i add a slightly alcoholic breath to it , and all of a sudden the story is enforced with contempt .
i &apos;m not taking the same course .
i &apos;m not a robot ; i don &apos;t always do things the same way .
and my patients are not cars ; they &apos;re not always telling me their symptoms in the same way .
all of these things are inevitable .
so if you take the system the way i was taught it , and you put out all the errors in health care , then there &apos;s no one left at all .
when i heard that , i thought that was incredibly -- that &apos;s exactly how my creative process was going on .
and you know the bodies of people who don &apos;t want to talk about their worst cases ?
in my show , &quot; white coat , black art , &quot; i have the habit of saying , &quot; this is my worst mistake , &quot; i would say to everybody from the rescue assistant to the cardiologist , &quot; this is my worst mistake , blah , blah , blah , blah , blah , what about your ? &quot; and then i &apos;ll show you the microphone .
and then their pupils expand , they got in front of their head , and then they look down and they swallow , and they start telling their stories .
they want to tell their stories . they want to share their stories .
they want to be able to say , &quot; look , don &apos;t make the same mistakes i made . &quot;
what you need is an environment that you put in place .
what you need is a new medical culture .
and it starts with a doctor .
the new defined doctor is a human being , knows for his humanity , accepts her , is not proud to make mistakes , but put everything out of them so that it can be passed on .
she shares her experiences with others .
it &apos;s not like my creative process at all -- i &apos;m not the channel !
it supports when others talk about their mistakes .
and it shows others their mistakes , not to mess , but in a loving , supportive way , so that they all benefit .
and she &apos;s working in a medical culture that recognizes that people are filling the system with life , and if that &apos;s true , people are also making mistakes from time to time .
so that the system is evolving to create backups , which make it easier to make mistakes , to make people inevitable , and also to create loving , supportive spaces where anyone who observes health care can actually address things that are potential errors and even reward for it , and that &apos;s specifically for people like me to make mistakes and be rewarded for the grading of that .
my name is brian goldman .
i &apos;m the new defined doctor .
i &apos;m a human being . i make mistakes .
i regret . but i &apos;m trying to learn best from it to pass on to others .
i don &apos;t know what you think i am , but i can live with that .
let me close with three of my own words : i remember .
i &apos;m a mouthful . in order to work , i have to stand up at the same time every day and sweat , struggle me , and really squeeze through uncomfortable .
i &apos;m going to talk about a tiny , little idea .
it &apos;s about changing standards .
and because you can explain this idea in a minute , i &apos;m going to tell you three stories before to use time .
the first story is about charles darwin , one of my heroes .
you know , he was here in 1835 .
you might think he was chasing finks , but that &apos;s not true .
in fact , he collected fish .
he described one of them as very common .
it was a grouper .
until the &apos; 80s , it was fished in a big way .
but even in my masonry species , sometimes this thing was ripping .
now it &apos;s on the red list of endangered species .
we &apos;ve heard this story many times from the galapagos , or from other places , it &apos;s not very special .
yet , we &apos;re still coming to the galapagos islands .
we still think they &apos;re original .
the brochures still describe them as untouched .
what happened here ?
the second story is to illustrate a different concept , which is a transformative tailwidth .
because i experienced it when i was studying a lagoon in west africa in 1971 .
i went there , because i grew up in europe , and i wanted to work later in africa .
i thought i could integrate .
and i guess many of you have done that .
and i got a bad sunburn , and i was convinced that i really didn &apos;t come from there .
it was my first sunburn .
as you can see , the lagoon of palms and a couple of mangroves was surrounded .
there was a bunk of about 20 inches , black-and-mouth breeders , a substance of the bunk bark .
the fishermen of these bunk were very productive , and the fishermen lived well on top of it and earned a good job in ghana .
when i went back 27 years later , the fish had shrunk to half its size .
they grew up five inches .
they were genetically expressed .
they were still fish .
people were still happy .
even i had work or ideas that came through from a source that i really can &apos;t identify .
and the fish were also lucky to be there .
so nothing has changed , and yet everything has changed .
my third little story tells you about my participation in the introduction of trawling in southeast asia .
in the &apos; 70s -- rather in the early &apos; 60s -- europe promoted a lot of development projects .
fish promotion meant countries that started already 100,000 fish , the industrial fishing of this pretty ugly ship called mutiara 4 .
and i went on this , and we made pipes all over the southern south china sea , and especially in the javasee .
we had no words for what we caught there .
i know now that it was the reason of the ocean .
90 percent of our beginnings were sponges , other animals that are connected to the reason .
most of the fish , the little dots there on the debris , the debris pile , were coral reef fish .
what is this thing ?
basically , the bottom of the ocean came on deck , and then it was thrown back .
these images are extraordinary , because the transition is going very fast .
within a year , you start a survey and then you start with the commercial fishing .
the reason is changing . for -- in this case -- a hard reason , or soft corals , it &apos;s a matchy crap .
this is a dead turtle .
they were not eaten , they were thrown away because they were dead .
once upon a time , we caught a living one .
she wasn &apos;t drowned yet .
then they wanted to kill them , because you could eat them well .
in fact , this mountain of debris is accumulated every time you drive into areas that have never been fished .
and how do we relate to this without losing our minds , but to keep ourselves in mental health ?
but it &apos;s not documented .
we change the world , but we don &apos;t remember it .
we adjust our standards to the new level , and we don &apos;t remind ourselves of what was there .
if you generalize it , this is what happens .
on the y-axis , there are some good things : biodiversity , number of orca , the green of your country , the water supply .
over time , it changes . it changes , because for people , their actions are very natural .
every generation looks at the images that you take at the beginning of your conscious life as a standard and will derive everything from it .
the difference is then perceived as a loss .
but they don &apos;t notice the previous losses .
there can be a series of changes .
for me , the best living example of how to do this is to get the musician tom waits . i was allowed to interview him for a magazine a few years ago .
and at the end , you just want to get the inheritable remains .
that &apos;s our goal , largely now .
we want to get things that are gone or things that are no longer the way they were .
you might think that the problem with people who were certainly living in predator societies , killed animals , and who only after a few generations , realized what they had done .
because obviously , an animal that was very common is rarely before it dies out .
so you don &apos;t lose a common occurrence .
you &apos;re always losing rare animals .
and that &apos;s why it &apos;s not seen as a great loss .
over time , we &apos;re focusing on the big animals , and in the ocean , these are the big fish .
they get rarer because we catch them .
at the end of this amazing initiation , they &apos;re suddenly taken out one day , and for the first time in their lives , at the age of 18 , you see a sunrise . and in this crystal moment of consciousness , when the sun begins to shine on the hangs of the amazingly beautiful landscape , all of a sudden , everything they &apos;ve learned in the abstract domain will be confirmed in amazing glory . and the priest will come back and say , &quot; you see ? it &apos;s really the way i told you .
we were talking about this topic . and you know what ? most of his life , tom was the embodiment of the pissed modern artist , who was trying to dominate these uncontrollable creative impulses that lived in him and deal with them .
over time , there &apos;s little fish left , and we think that &apos;s the standard value .
the question is , why do people accept that ?
well , because they don &apos;t know it was different once .
of course , many people , scientists , will confirm that it was really different .
they will confirm it , because the evidence of how they were in an earlier form is not as they would like to demonstrate the evidence .
for example , there &apos;s the anecdote that the report of a captain that was watching big fish in this area can &apos;t be used , or fishing scientists don &apos;t usually be used , because it &apos;s not &quot; scientific . &quot;
so we have a situation where people don &apos;t know the past , even though we live in educated societies , because they don &apos;t trust the sources of the past .
this shows the enormous role that a marine protected area can play .
because by marine protected areas , we &apos;re basically restoring the past .
we restore the past that people can &apos;t understand , because the standards have changed and are very low .
but then he got older and quieter , and he told me that one day he was driving on a highway in los angeles , and it changed for him .
so the people who see a marine protected area can benefit from the insight that allows them to restore their normal values .
what about the people who can &apos;t do that , because they don &apos;t have access -- for example , the people in the midwest ?
here , i think , the art and the film may fill the gap , and simulations .
this is the simulation of chesapeake bay .
a long time ago , there were gray whales there -- 500 years ago .
and the color notes and the shades may remind you of &quot; avatar . &quot;
when you think about &quot; avatar , &quot; when you think about why people were so touched by this -- except for the pocahoney story , why were you so touched by the image world ?
because it &apos;s called something that &apos;s been lost in a way .
so my recommendation , the only one i &apos;m going to give , is on cameron to turn &quot; avatar ii &quot; under water .
thank you .
he was driving at a high speed when he suddenly hears a little fragment of a melody , which , as is often inspiring , is very difficult for him , and he wants to have it . it &apos;s gorgeous . he leans afterwards , but he can &apos;t touch it .
in the &apos; 80s , in the communist east germany , if you had a typewriter , you had to register it in the government .
they also had to register a leaf with unprecedented text from this typewriter .
the reason for this : the government could go back to where a text came from .
they found an article with false thought , they could detect the creator of that thought .
and we in the west couldn &apos;t understand how anyone could do this , and how much that would confine the freedom of speech .
in our own countries , we would never do that .
but if you buy a new color laser printer today in 2011 from the leading laser printing factories and print a page , this page of bright yellow spots on every page , in a pattern that clearly retraces the page to you and your printer .
this is what &apos;s happening to us today .
and nobody seems to get upset about that .
and this was an example of how our own governments use technology against us , the citizens .
he &apos;s got no paper , he &apos;s got no pen , he &apos;s got no tape recorder .
and that &apos;s one of the three main sources of the online problems that we have today .
let &apos;s see what &apos;s really happening in the world : we can divide the attacks into categories .
we have three main groups .
there are criminals online .
for example , here , this is mr. dimitry golubow from jaw in ukraine .
and the motives of online criminals are very easy to understand .
these people make money .
they use online attacks to make a lot of money , a huge amount of money .
there are several known cases of online millionaire , multimillionaire , who have made their money through attacks .
this is wladimir tsastsin from tartu in estonia .
so he starts to climb up this old adhesive in him , like i &apos;m going to lose this thing , and he &apos;s going to be tracked by this song forever .
this is alfred gonzalez .
stephen watt .
bjordan sundin .
this is matthew anderson , tariq al-daour , and so on and so forth .
these people have come online to wealth , but they &apos;ve illegally acquired it by , for example , using trojans to claim money from our bank accounts , while we &apos;re doing our online banking , or keyloggers who have collected our credit card information on the keyboard while we &apos;re buying on an infected computer online .
the u.s. intelligence agency fror two months ago , the mr. sam jain swiss account here , and that account was 14.9 million dollars when it was frozen .
mr. jain himself is on the open foot , the locations are unknown .
and i &apos;m saying today that we &apos;re more likely to be victims of an online crime than a fragile in the real world .
and it &apos;s very obvious that this is just going to get worse .
in the future , most crimes will play online .
i &apos;m not good enough , i &apos;m not able to do it .
the second largest attacker group that we can see today is not motivated by money .
they &apos;re motivated by something else -- protests , for example , an opinion , or through their audience .
groups like anonymous have gone up over the last 12 months , and have become one of the main players in the field of online attacks .
so these are the three main attacks : criminals who are doing it in the money , hackactivists like anonymous , who are doing it , but the last group are nations , governments who are running the attacks .
that &apos;s where we are , like diginotar , like diginotar .
it shows you an example of what happens when governments attack their own citizens .
diginotar is a full-time certificate from the netherlands -- or it was .
last fall , it had to register insolvation , because diginotar had been hacked .
somebody had broken in and hacked the system thoroughly .
and last week in a meeting with dutch government officials , i asked one of the senior of this group the question of whether he was able to do it , because of the diginotar hack people had died .
but instead of getting into panic , he just stopped .
and his answer was yes .
now , how do people die in the aftermath of such a hack ?
diginotar is a certification site .
they sell certificates .
what do you do with certificates ?
well , a certificate requires that if you have a https website , with ssl encrypted services , for example , gmail .
now , we all use , or many of us , gmail or one of our competitors , but these services are particularly prevalent in totalitarian states like iran , where dissidents use foreign services like gmail , because they know that they can trust them more than local providers and they &apos;re encrypted across ssl connections , so that the local government can &apos;t sniff around their conversations .
but you can do it if you &apos;re in an alien .
certification agencies hacking and fake certificate .
and that &apos;s what happened in the case of diginotar .
he ended the whole thought and did something completely new .
how about the arab spring and the things that happened in egypt , for example ?
well , in egypt , the insurgency in april 2011 looted the egyptian secret police headquarters , and they found a lot of records .
in these records , there was a folder called finfisher .
and in this folder , there were notes from a local company in germany that had sold some programs to the egyptian government that they could , in a very large way , capture any communication of the egyptian citizens .
they had sold this program for 280,000 euros to the egyptian government .
the corporate headquarters are right here .
so western governments are providing totalitarian governments with tools so that they can do it against their own citizens .
but western governments also help themselves .
for example , in germany , just a couple of weeks ago , the so-called state strojans found this was a trojan who was used by german government officials to occupy their own citizens .
if you &apos;re suspected in a criminal case , you &apos;re pretty sure that your phone is tapped into it .
he just looked in the sky and said , &quot; sorry , can &apos;t you see that i &apos;m driving a car ? &quot;
but today we are far beyond that .
they tap into their internet connection .
they use tools like the state strojan to get their computer in a trojan that allows them to monitor their entire communication , to hear their online discussions , to collect their passwords .
so if we keep thinking about things like this , the obvious answer to people would be , &quot; ok , that sounds bad , but it &apos;s not because i &apos;m a good citizen .
i don &apos;t have to worry .
i have nothing to hide . &quot;
and that argument doesn &apos;t make any sense .
privacy must be given .
privacy is not a debate .
it &apos;s not a decision between privacy and security .
does i look like i could just write down a song ?
it &apos;s a decision between freedom and control .
and while today , in 2011 , we may trust our governments , every right we give away is given forever .
and do we trust , do we blindly trust any future government , a government that we might have in 50 years ?
these are the questions that we have to deal with for the next 50 years .
it may seem strange to you , but i &apos;m a big fan of concrete blocks .
the first concrete blocks were made in 1868 , and they came up with a simple idea : module from cement with solid measurements that fit together .
concrete building blocks very quickly became the most used building unit in the world .
they put us in a position to build things bigger than us , buildings , bridges , one stone at a time .
basically , the concrete building block had become the building block of our time .
almost a hundred years later , in 1947 , lego came out with this .
it &apos;s so wonderful . you have to protect it . &quot;
if you really want to exist , come back to a cheaper moment , if i can take care of you .
it was called the automatically connected stone .
and within a few years , lego went into every household .
it &apos;s been estimated that over 400 billion stones were produced -- or 75 stones for every person on the planet .
they don &apos;t have to be an engineer to create beautiful houses , beautiful bridges or beautiful buildings .
lego made it possible for everyone .
lego basically took the concrete building block , the building block of the world , and made it a building block for our imagination .
in the meantime , in the same year at bell labs , the next revolution was announced , the next building block .
the transistor was a little plastic unit that would take us from a world of static , stacked building blocks to a world where everything was interactive .
like the concrete block , the transistor allows us to build much larger , more complex cycles , one stone at a time .
but there &apos;s a big difference : the transistor was only for experts .
if not , squawks someone else today .
i personally don &apos;t accept that the building block of our time is reserved for experts , and so i decided to change that .
eight years ago , i was at the media lab , and i started to explore this idea of how to put the power of the engineers into the hand of artists and designers .
a few years ago , i started to develop littlebits .
let me show you how they work .
littlebits are electronic modules that have a specific function .
they &apos;re pre-made , light , sound , engine and sensor .
and the best part is that they connect with magnets .
so you can &apos;t put them together in the wrong way .
the stones are colored .
green is output , blue is electricity , pink is input , and orange is cable .
go and squawk leonard cohen .
so all you have to do is connect a blue one and a green one , and you can build bigger circles very quickly .
they put a blue on a green one , and they can make light .
they can put a switch in between , and so they made a little dimmer .
take the switch out to put in a pulsar , which is here , and they made a little blind .
add this buzzer for an extra effect , and they made a noise machine .
i &apos;m going to stop that .
beyond the simple game , littlebits is actually quite powerful .
instead of having to code , wire or solve , littlebits allows them to code with simple , intuitive gestures .
so in order to accelerate or slow down , you just turn on this button , and it makes the impulse faster or slower .
the idea behind littlebits is that it &apos;s a growing library .
his whole process of work has changed after that .
we want to put every single interaction in the world into a useful stone .
lights , notes , solar elements , motors -- everything should be available .
we &apos;ve distributed littlebits to children , and we &apos;ve seen them play with them .
and it was an incredible experience .
the most beautiful thing is , how do you start to understand the electronics around you in the everyday world and they don &apos;t learn in school ?
for example , how a night light works , or why the doors of the elevator remain open , or how an ipod reacts to touch .
we also brought littlebits to design schools .
so for example , we had designers with no experience in electronic things that started playing with littlebits as a material .
here we see , with filming , paper and water bottles , like geordie ...
a few weeks ago , we took littlebits to risd , and we gave them to some designers who had no technical experience -- just cardboard , wood and paper -- and we said , &quot; do something . &quot;
not the work itself . it was still as dark as ever .
here &apos;s an example of a project they did , a motion-controlled confetti cannon .
but wait , this is really my favorite project .
it &apos;s a hummer of play-doh , which is scared in the darkness .
for this non-engineer , littlebits became another material , electronics just became another material .
and we want to make this material available for everyone .
so littlebits is open source .
you can go to the website , download all the design papers and make them yourself .
we want to encourage the world of the creators , the inventors , the contributors , because this world that we live in , this interactive world , belongs to us .
so , go ahead and start inventing it .
thank you .
but the process and the heavy adhesive that surrounds it was lifted up when he took the genius out of it , where he had nothing but an anger , and he left him where he came from , in a sense , and he realized that there had to be no internalized , agonized thing .
there could be a peculiar , miraculous , bizarre collaboration , a kind of conversation between tom and the foreign , outrageous thing that wasn &apos;t quite tom .
when i heard this story , it also changed a little bit the way i worked , and it saved me before .
this idea saved me when i was in the middle of the writing process of michael eat , pray , love , and i fell into one of those trenches of doubt that we all fall into when we &apos;re working on something and it doesn &apos;t work . you start to think it &apos;s a disaster . it &apos;s the worst book ever written .
not only bad , but the worst of all time .
they call themselves the older brothers , and they say that we are responsible for the destruction of the world .
i started thinking , i should just plug in the project .
but then i remembered tom speaking in the free sky , and i tried .
so i took my view of the manuscript and i spoke my commentary towards an empty corner of the room .
i said , &quot; listen , you thing , you and i both know , if this book is not brilliant , that it &apos;s not completely my fault , right ? &quot;
because you can see that i &apos;m investing everything i have . i don &apos;t have any more than that .
so if you want to have it better , you have to show up here and have your percentage of the deal .
okay . but , if you don &apos;t do that , you know what , then the hell with it .
i &apos;m going to keep writing , though , because that &apos;s my job .
and i &apos;d like to give you a protocol , that i was here for my part of the job today .
because ... at the end , it &apos;s like this . centuries ago , in the deserts of north africa , people have gathered to monthly dances and music that have been held for hours -- to the dawn .
now this level of intuition becomes very important .
these were always great , because the dancers were professional , and they were fantastic .
but again and again , very rarely , something special happened , and one of the performers actually became overseas .
and i know you know what i mean , because i know you &apos;ve all seen a performance like this in your life .
it was like time to stand still , and the dancer would come through a kind of pform , and he would do nothing but he had ever done it -- 1,000 nights before , but everything would assemble .
and all of a sudden , he no longer seemed pure human .
it was lit up from the inside , and it was illuminated from the bottom , and everything was illuminated by a divine fire .
when that happened , people knew what that was . they called it on his name .
they put their hands together , and they started singing , like allah , allah , allah , god , god , god .
that &apos;s god , you know ?
interesting historical footnote : when the mosquito conquered south spain , they brought this practice , and the language changed in the course of the centuries from the allah , allah , allah , and olé , olé , which you still hear when you &apos;re still fighting and flamenco dances .
whenever we think about innate and landscape , we either conspire rousseau and the old framework of the nobly wild , which in its simplification is a racial thought , or thoreau , and say , these people are more connected to nature than we are .
if a performer in spain has done something unpossible , something magical : the allah , olé , olé , allah , great , bravo , there it is : a glimpse of god .
and that &apos;s great , because we need that .
but , the tricky part follows the next morning , when the dancer wakes up himself and realizes that it &apos;s 11 o &apos;clock on a tuesday -- and no longer carries a fifth of god .
it &apos;s just an aging mortal with painful knees , and maybe it &apos;s never going to go back to those heights .
and maybe no one will ever call god &apos;s name again , when he turns , but what should he do with the rest of his life ?
that &apos;s hard .
this is one of the most painful corrections of a creative life .
but maybe it doesn &apos;t have to be so full of pure if you didn &apos;t believe in the beginning that the most extraordinary aspects of your existence came from you .
if you just believe that you &apos;re a loan -- from an unbelievable source for a reader time in your life that &apos;s passed on to someone else when you &apos;re done with it .
when we start thinking about it , it changes everything .
so , infants are neither sentimental , nor are they chosen by the nostalgia .
so i started to think , and so i think , surely in the last few months , working on the book , which will soon appear -- as the dangerous , scary , highly expected successor of my dedicated success .
what i have to say to myself all the time when i get crazy about this is : don &apos;t be afraid .
don &apos;t be discouraged .
just do your job .
be there for your contribution , whatever it may be .
if your job is dancing , dance .
if the stupid divine genius that you &apos;re put aside decides , for a moment , to show a smoke of wonder through your efforts , it will be .
and if you don &apos;t , still dance .
and , you know , olé ! despite all this .
i believe that , and i feel that we should teach that .
there &apos;s not a lot of space for this in the malaria soup of asmat or the cold winds of tibet , but they still , through time and ritual , have shaped a mysterious nimbus of the earth , which is not based on the idea of being aware of it , but on a much more subtle intuition , the idea that the earth can only exist because it &apos;s breathed into human consciousness .
so , olé ! for you , despite all this , just for having the mere human love and self-esteem to be there .
thank you .
thank you .
olé !
last year , i showed these two slides to illustrate that the arctic ice caps , which for nearly three million years had the size of the bottom 48 states , by 40 percent .
but that doesn &apos;t really express the seriousness of this particular problem , because it doesn &apos;t show the thickness of the ice .
in a sense , the arctic ice caps is the beating heart of our global climate system .
it grows in winter and shrinks in summer .
the next slide i &apos;m going to show you is a time-lapse picture of what &apos;s happened in the last 25 years .
the permanent ice is marked with red .
now , what does that mean ?
as you can see , it grows on the dark blue , this is the annual ice in winter , and it shrinks in summer .
the so-called permanent ice , five years old or older , is almost like blood flowing out of the body here .
in 25 years , it &apos;s going to be gone from here to here .
this is a problem , because warming is the frozen reason for looking at the arctic ocean , where there are huge amounts of frozen carbon , which , when it breaks up , is implemented by microbes to methane .
compared to the entire amount of climate change in the atmosphere , that amount could double if we crossed that critical point .
already today , in some flat lakes in alaska methane itself from the water .
professor katey walter at the university of alaska has traveled to another flat lake in the last winter .
wow !
you &apos;re fine . the question is , how are we going to do it ?
and one reason is that this vast heat island heats greenland from the north .
it means that a little kid from the anden who grows up in the belief that the mountain is an apu mind , who is or her destiny , will be a whole other person , and have a different relationship with this resource or this place , as a little kid from montana , who grows up in the belief that a mountain is a bunch of stones that can be carried off .
this is an annual dive river .
but the volume is much bigger than ever before .
this is the canadian suaq river in southwest greenland .
if you want to know how the sea level goes through the land ice sheet , it &apos;s flowing into the ocean .
these rivers are rapidly accepting .
at the other end of the planet , antarctica , the largest ice mass on the planet .
last month , researchers reported that the entire continent now has a negative ice footprint .
and the west antarctica , which has come up over a few underwater islands , is particularly strong in melting .
this is 20 feet of sea level , like greenland .
in the himalayas , the third largest ice mass , you see new lakes on the top , which were glaciers a few years ago .
whether it &apos;s a locality of a mind or a bunch of ore , it &apos;s irrelevant .
40 percent of all the people in the world get half their drinking water from this melting water .
in the andes , this glacier is the water source for this city .
the amount of water has expanded .
but if you seal , most of the drinking water will fall away .
in california , a 40 percent reduction in the snow ceiling of the sierra .
this is in the memory basins .
and the predictions of how you read them are serious .
this is a dramatic increase in fires all over the world .
and the disasters all over the world have increased in a really extraordinary and unprecedented extent .
four times as many in the last 30 years as in the previous 75 .
the interesting thing is the metaphor that defines the relationship between the individual and nature .
this is a completely unsustainable pattern of development .
if you look at this in the historical context , you can see what it does .
in the last five years , we &apos;ve produced 70 million tons of co2 every 24 hours -- 25 million tons a day in the oceans .
look closely at the area of the eastern pacific , the american continent west and both across the indian subcontinent , where there is a dramatic decline in oxygen in the ocean .
the biggest single factor for global warming , besides deforestation , which is 20 percent , is burning fossil fuels .
oil is a problem , and coal is the biggest problem .
the united states is one of the biggest pollutants , along with china .
and the proposal was to build many more coal-fired factories .
but we &apos;re starting to see a change .
here are the ones that have been argued in the last few years , with some green alternatives that have been proposed .
i grew up in the forests of british colombia , and i believed that these forests were there to be roasted .
meanwhile , there &apos;s a political argument in our country .
and the coal frames and oil ducks have spent a quarter billion dollars last year on the calendars to promote clean coal , which is a contradiction in itself .
this picture reminded me of something .
around christmas , at my home in tennessee , a billion tons of coal lamb .
you &apos;ve seen it in the news , apparently .
this is all over our country , the second largest waste river in america .
this happened around christmas .
one of the commercials of the coal industry for christmas was this .
frosty the carbon man is a happy , happy guy .
it &apos;s in skin and abundance in america , and it helps to grow our economy .
this made me another human being than my friends under the kwakiutl , who believe that these forests are the place of hukuk and the curved celestial beak and the cannibalic spirits that live in the north of the world , spirits that they would participate in their hamatsa initiation .
frosty , the carbon man gets clean every day .
it &apos;s affordable and loving , and workers remain in wage and bread .
this is the source of most coal in west virginia .
the most powerful miner is the head of massey coal .
let me say one thing very clearly : al gore , nancy pelosi , harry reid , you don &apos;t know what you &apos;re talking about .
so the alliance for climate change protection has started two campaigns .
this is one , one part of it .
at coalergy , we see climate change as a serious threat to our business .
so we &apos;ve set it to the top line to spend a significant amount of money to get an advertising on the way to get the truth about coal .
in fact , coal is not dirty .
now , if you start to look at the idea that these cultures can create different realities , you can understand some of their extraordinary discoveries , like this plant here .
we think it &apos;s clean -- and still smells good .
so , don &apos;t worry about climate change .
let &apos;s leave that quietly .
clean coal , you &apos;ve heard a lot about it .
so let &apos;s take a tour of this modern , clean coal factory .
fantastic ! this machine is pretty loud .
but it &apos;s the sound of clean coal technology .
and yet , the burning of coal is one of the main reasons for global warming , the remarkable clean coal technology that you see here changes everything .
look carefully at it , this is the clean coal technology we have today .
finally , the positive alternative is mixing with our economic challenge and our national security challenge .
all of these people teach us that there are other possibilities of existence , different ways of thinking , different ways of orienting on earth .
it &apos;s a photograph that i just took last april in the northwest of the amazon .
america is in a crisis , the economy , the national security , the climate crisis .
the red thread that connects all of these is our dependence on carbon based fuels like dirty coal and foreign oil .
but now there &apos;s a bold , new solution to get us out of this miserable situation .
supply america with 100 percent clean electricity in the next 10 years .
a plan to get america back to work , to make us safer and to help stop global warming .
finally , a solution that &apos;s big enough to solve our problems .
take care of america . find out more .
this is the last one .
it &apos;s about repurposing america .
one of the fastest ways to reduce our dependence on old , dirty fuels that are sticking our world .
this is ayahuasca , which many of you have heard about , the strongest psychoactive preparate from the repertoire of the shaman .
the future is here . wind , sun and a new energy system .
new investments to create well-paid jobs .
supply america new . it &apos;s time to accept reality .
there &apos;s an old african saying , &quot; if you want to be fast , go alone .
if you want to get far , go together . &quot;
we have to get a long way , and very quickly .
thank you .
i want to start by asking you to think back to the time you were a kid , when you were playing with building blocks .
while they realized how to reach out and grab the hands , take the blocks and move , they actually learned how to think and solve problems through understanding and changing spatial connections .
the spatial thinking is tightly connected to how we understand a lot of our environment .
as a computer scientist -- inspired by the kind of interaction we have with real objects -- with my expert patti and my colleague jeevan kalanithi , i began to wonder : what if we were to use computers that , instead of a mouse show that moves like a digital fingertip on a flat surface ... what if we could intervene with both hands and take data physically and put it in the way that we want it to ?
this question was so profound that we decided to explore the answer , and we developed siftables .
in short , a siftable is an interactive computer the size of a cookie .
they can be moved by the hand , they can perceive each other , they can detect their movements , and they have a screen and a radio receiver .
more importantly , it &apos;s physically why you can move it like building blocks just by extending your hands and access .
and the siftables are an example of a new generation of tools to manipulate digital data .
and as these tools become more physical and develop awareness of their movements , recognize each other , and perceive the enemies of our process with them , then we can start to explore new and entertaining interactions .
i &apos;m going to start with some simple examples .
this silicon is configured for the video feedback , and when i tip it in a direction , the video is played forward ; when i tip it in the other direction , it &apos;s going backwards .
and these interactive portraits are perceiving each other .
this plant contains some very strong tryptamins that are very similar to the serotonin , dimethyltryptamin 5 and methoxydimethyltryptamin .
so when i put them side-by-side , that &apos;s what makes you interested .
if you &apos;re surrounded by one , you &apos;ll notice that , and you can get a little nervous .
and they also feel their movements and their tendency .
and an interesting consequence of the interactions that we started to realize was that we could apply everyday gestures to data , like shooting color the way you do it with fluids .
in this case , we &apos;ve configured three pots of color as color , and i can use it to pour color in the middle , where they &apos;re mixed .
if we exaggerate it , we can put back a little bit .
there are also some nice ways in education , like languages , mathematics or logic games , where we give people the possibility of trying fast , and we want to see the results immediately .
here i am -- this is a fibonacci series that i make with a simple equilibrium program .
this is a game with words that is a kind of mixture of scrabble and boggle .
basically , you get every round on every siftable random letter , and while you &apos;re trying to make words , they &apos;re tested by a dictionary .
if you &apos;ve seen the yanoma before , as they &apos;re using this stuff , this substance that they &apos;re making from different species also contains methoxydimethylacine .
then , after about 30 seconds , you remix , and you have a new set of letters and new possibilities to try .
thank you .
these are some kids who came to the media lab on a trip , and i could get them to try it out , and i took a video of it .
they really loved it .
one interesting thing about these kinds of applications is that you don &apos;t have to give people a lot of instructions .
all you have to say is &quot; form words , &quot; and they know exactly what to do .
here are some people who test it .
this is our youngest beta-tester down there on the bottom right .
it turned out he just wanted to stack up the siftables .
so for him , they were just building blocks .
to snuff this powder is about to be shot out of a rifle , saturated by baroque paintings and the landing on a sea of electricity .
this is an interactive trick-filming twist .
we wanted to develop a tool for language learners .
this is felix .
he can bring new characters into the scene by lifting the siftable from the table that shows this character .
here he &apos;s going to let the sun go .
the sun rises .
now he &apos;s bringing a tractor into the scene .
the orange tractor .
good work ! yes !
by shaking the siftables and putting them next to each other , he can let the characters interact ...
it &apos;s not created a distortion of reality , but the resolution of reality .
... inventing his own story .
hello !
it &apos;s a story with an open end , and it can decide how it evolves .
flying cat .
the last example that i have time to show you today is a music sequencer for live performances that we &apos;ve recently developed and operated in the silicon as sound , like leadership , bass and drums .
each has four different variations ; you can choose which one you want to use .
and you can put this sound into the sequence that you can put in any pattern .
and you eat them by just holding a clay leftable to a sequence leftable .
there are effects that you can change live , like hall and filters .
you connect it to a particular note and then you tend to hire it .
i even discussed with my professor , richard evan shultes , the man who has introduced the psychedelic erea with the discovery of the magical mushrooms in mexico in the 30s , and i said that you couldn &apos;t put these tryptamins into the hallucination gene , because the moment you feel the effects , you &apos;re no longer there to experience a hallucination .
and then , even more sophisticated effects like pace and volume , which you apply to the whole sequence .
so let &apos;s see .
we &apos;re starting to put the leadership in two sequencing halls and put it in a row , expand it , and add a little bit more of the voice .
now i &apos;m adding a barrel .
now i &apos;m going to do a little bit more drums about this .
and now i &apos;m going to connect the filter with the drums so i can control the effect live .
i can accelerate the whole sequence by tipping the pace in one direction or another .
and now i &apos;m going to connect the filter with the barrel , for a little bit more expression .
i can reframe the sequence as it &apos;s going on .
and by doing that , i don &apos;t have to plan it in the field , but i can improvise it ; i can expand it or shorten it during the course .
but the thing about tryptamins is that they can &apos;t be taken orally , because they &apos;re made , of course , in a human intestine enzyme called monoamin oxidase , they &apos;re denatured .
and finally , i can shut out the whole sequence by tipping the loud-strengthening silicon to the left .
thank you .
so as you can see , my excitement is to develop new human-computer interfaces that fit better to how our brains and bodies work .
and today , i had time to show you some of this new design world and some of the ways that we &apos;re working on in our lab .
the idea that i want to leave you with is that we &apos;re on the verge of this new generation of tools to interact with digital media , which bring information to our world , which is our demands .
thank you .
i look forward to the conversations with all of you .
yes , good afternoon .
i &apos;m glad i &apos;m there .
yeah , so , what should be biohacking ?
they can only be connected to some other chemicals ordering the mao denaturists .
i have to get a little bit out of it , and that &apos;s biohacking is about modern molecular biology .
i study molecular biology , and i &apos;ve just been looking at biohacking for a couple of years , and i started that , because i just wanted to know more about it , and i also wanted to do it myself , which i &apos;ve learned theoretically in the study .
so , that was my primary motivation .
so it was a curiosity , and i wanted to sort of get closer to the matter , like that .
i think molecular biology in general is now , in general , speaking , biotechnology , everything you count on , synthetic biology and so on .
it &apos;s extremely important , it &apos;s extremely important , and it &apos;s going to be much , much more important in the future .
there are some controversial things like all these genetically engineered plants on the apples .
there &apos;s now craig venter in the u.s. , trying to make biofuel , which is gas from algae .
and then there are things that have come to the very everyday , but most people aren &apos;t aware of , like washing enzymes that allow us to wash at 40 degrees of water , are also genetically engineered enzymes .
and you can continue the list endlessly .
and this is an idea that , if you think about it , can only fulfill you with hope .
now the fascinating thing is that the takarboline , which is in the liane , are mao-inhibitors of exactly the same way that is necessary to potentize the tryptamins . so ask yourself .
and so , from the interest of this , this technology , i just continued to go in there .
that &apos;s why hacking now ?
most people know this from the software field .
computers hack , and then it &apos;s always going to be like this in the media , yes , the hackers break in somewhere and claw data and so on .
that &apos;s kind of sad for the hackerscene , because that &apos;s not what it actually started to do , and what &apos;s really behind it .
and that is that the software hackers , the &apos; 70s , &apos; 80s , started doing computer tinkering , and that &apos;s what the internet came out of it .
and it &apos;s about solving a problem in a playful , creative , original way .
and the problem , it &apos;s not just a technical problem , it can also be a social problem , it can also be a problem of starting , which is how things simplify , any problem , to ask a question , and how do you do it differently , or how do you do it better .
and it &apos;s just been raised with software , but there are also electronics , there &apos;s an entire tinkering scene that &apos;s been done with electronics circuits doing all kinds of things that are going on .
and now , in the direction of biology , and i want to take this metaphor that &apos;s coming out of synthetic biology , that biology is actually an information science , because the d.n.a code is an abstract code , which is , yes , it &apos;s not quite the same as computers , because it &apos;s more dynamic , because it &apos;s matter , so it &apos;s real matter , and not just cyber .
how can these people from a flora of 80,000 species of adstrinous plants find these two morphologically unrelated plants that , when combined in this way , create a kind of biochemical version , so that the whole thing is bigger than the sum of its parts ?
but it &apos;s also a code , and you can also program it , and you can also hack it , so i think it was incredibly fascinating , and i just wanted to get a lot deeper .
it &apos;s actually only taken two thousand really shape , these networks .
there &apos;s hackteria dot org , which is originally from switzerland , which is with europe and with a cooperation in india based on the network , but now , members or active people around the world .
this is a more artistic orientation , so there are a lot of artists and philosophers and scientists working together with this kind of technology and asking questions and processing this creatively , there are museum exhibitions and yes , all kinds of things .
but it &apos;s really all about finding such a locker access , having such a playful approach .
and then there &apos;s do-it-yourself bio dot org , d.i.y.bio .
this is from the u.s.a a network , which is actually more of a kind of forum where you &apos;re going to meet and discuss online .
they &apos;re a little bit more technical , and they &apos;re also a little bit more business along the way , and they &apos;re also being asked , you know , applied questions .
and based on these networks that have made the whole popular , it has evolved a scene like this that i want to briefly portray .
in the image on the upper left , you see biocurious , which is a hackerspace , so basically a kind of school , a private school , a nonprofit facility , where everybody can go .
we use this great euphemism , trial and error , which turns out to be meaningless .
children , old , all kinds of people go there to just sit down with it , they set up a lab , and they look at what can you do when these lab protocols look at it .
down here on the lower left is a group in indonesia , house-of-natural fiber , which is , but they &apos;ve been around for quite a long time .
for a long time than those other two networks .
they &apos;re also in such an artistic aspect of biological materials , and , yes , electronics tinkering , and they &apos;re combining it in a fairly remote way .
a group of ankara , who i met a while ago , had a group of students who wanted to give the public more about what they &apos;re learning in college , and they &apos;ve done so on street little actions , and they &apos;re trying to explain to people what d.n.a is .
and i have a lecture at the top of the other image in copenhagen at the medical museum in combination with an exhibition on the subject .
and that &apos;s , yes , that &apos;s usually quite young people , but the only thing that really brings you all together is this fascination of technology .
and what you can do with it , and also , quite specifically , is to go to the society and ask , &quot; okay , what do you know , what do you want to do , do you have an interest in bringing you in this way ? &quot;
so , ok , now , to hack biology , you kind of need material .
you need biological materials , of course , and you need tools , and that &apos;s a laboratory .
but if you ask the indians , they say , &quot; the plant speaks to us . &quot;
or what you normally understand under a laboratory is kind of like deployed machines , extremely expensive , extremely distanced , just for professionals , trained academics with ph.d. and so on .
and our approach was to say , okay , so you don &apos;t actually have to do that .
it &apos;s not necessary , in fact , because each coffee machine has actually more sophisticated technology than most laboratories , which is really the case .
and the o with this premise , for example , brian degger , in england , tried to assemble a minimum abor , then took a steam pressure cook , a heat plate , and , yes , soup brothers , and then grew bacteria .
so anyone who &apos;s been playing a soup that he &apos;s been around for too long has been doing .
i then tried to extend this in my lab to a little bit , and then i bought myself so second-hand equipment on ebay , and i did a little d.n.a analysis , trying to do a father &apos;s test , which is so / d.n.a fingerprinting , again , at home .
this shouldn &apos;t be a joke at all , but .
so , down here in the picture , you can see the lab , in the leadership , so there &apos;s this sort of mashed garage with all kinds of lab scaffolding that the university has been doing , a group in paris that &apos;s been doing something , and it &apos;s pretty successful , and it &apos;s also doing quite interesting things , and i want to do a project for a second .
and this is biocurious , the hackerspace i just mentioned , this yes , sort of a volkshock school , basically for molecular biology .
and yes , well , you can see , it &apos;s relatively heterogeneous , so there are people who are doing the home alone , all the way to large , larger organizations who are already doing this more formal in institutionalized form .
so , what does that mean ?
but always the idea that it should be simple and accessible .
the first project that we did as an international group , when we were sort of aware of ourselves , ok , so there &apos;s now a real scene here , and we &apos;re online , and we know the people who are always chatting and so on .
and then just came from the do-it-yourself bio org website of the founders , and said o.k , we have to actually meet , meet real , and then organized two events , one in london , two thousand , and soon after that in the u.s. , in san francisco .
and then , it was about , yes , who are we , what do we want to say , what do we want to share ?
and what are our values , and what are our goals , our foundation ?
and then we worked out a code-of-conduct .
that was quite intuitive , so everyone just expressed their wishes , his and what moves him , then .
and there , i think , was a very good code .
and then we didn &apos;t have that , but that &apos;s kind of , you know , i think it &apos;s been pretty good , people are pretty convinced of that .
and we even then tried to bring that back to the academic world , but it &apos;s kind of not there .
this tribe , the cofan , has 17 varieties of ayahuasca that you all recognize at a distance in the forest that we see as a species .
so i think we &apos;re from the biohacking scene , in fact , a step further than the academic world .
yeah , what kind of projects do we do now ?
one project that i did with the hackteria network in switzerland was that we wanted to build a so-called optical trap or optical pink chain .
this is when you focus a laser beam on you in the room , you can catch little particles in the air or in the liquid and then move in that focus , so that &apos;s where it &apos;s captured , like a tractor beam , basically .
this really works , this is done in the academic setting , and then we thought , okay , maybe we can do this , then we took a webcam , and then we put it up , and we turn the lens off , and then you have a microscope that &apos;s going to increase about four hundred times .
you can see that down there .
and then we took a d.v.d brenner apart , and we pulled the laser out , and then we tried to focus on this camera there .
and that didn &apos;t work , unfortunately , but we &apos;ve learned a lot .
this is another project that came out of the french group in paris , and it worked out , which is pretty cool .
and that is , he &apos;s got this kind of brain wave measuring device , this e.e.g or something , so he &apos;s been looking at neurobiology , his nickname is sam neurohack .
and then you ask them how they start their taxonomy , and they say , &quot; i thought you &apos;d understand something about plants .
and he then built this helmet , and in the cooperation with the museum , it was done .
and then the visitors could go into the room , sit on this chair , sit down this helmet .
then their brainwaves were measured , and depending on what they thought , or what they thought , was then different lights in the room .
it was a pretty fortunate project .
another thing from the united states , which has to do with this paternity story there , is the p.c.r , which is the polymer chain response , complicated word .
so it &apos;s about copying genes , replicating genes , d.n.a , multiplying fragments so that you can make them visible .
so if i do that now , the profilers in the crime scene , then they go and collect some hair samples , and then they turn that method on , and then they can say , okay , that hair belongs to that person , like that .
and the machines that do this , they &apos;re pretty expensive to do , which you buy commercially , the cheapest ones go off at four thousand euros .
and that &apos;s not in the hobbyian area , but it &apos;s a really cool technology that can also do a lot of things .
so this is just an application of many that you can do with this .
i mean , you know nothing at all ? &quot; and i said , &quot; no . &quot;
and they &apos;ve been running out of two builders , and they &apos;re saying , okay , we &apos;re going to do this easier and cheaper , and then they &apos;ve got open source , which is open source hardware , electronics , and they &apos;re going to assemble this device , and they &apos;re actually now going to be the cheapest provider of these devices in the world .
i think , kind of , six hundred dollars or something like that .
but anyway , it &apos;s still not cheap , but it &apos;s certainly in a context where it &apos;s more available .
so , i think it &apos;s a very promised hack .
one project i started recently was to build a gene gun .
gene-gun is , yes , like a kind of air-pressure gun , which shoots about this far , two centimeters or so .
you put the d.n.a on gold particles , and then you put the gold particles in this air pressure pistol , and then i shot them on onion , and then i made them light .
so the device that you see there didn &apos;t work .
but this is my prototype , but it &apos;s kind of like that , but it &apos;s kind of like my prototype , and it &apos;s kind of on a branch like this , and it &apos;s on it , you know , electronics on it and pressure , and it &apos;s been too high , it &apos;s been broken .
and then i took a spigot and i hooked it up .
so , it turns out you take each of the 17 variants on the full moon and they sing to you in a different pitch .
a chicken powder , if you make it full of water , has enough pressure , so i think it &apos;s about 40 to six to six feet .
and then you can accelerate the particles so much , and then you can go into the onion .
and the commercial device costs about 50,000 euros upward or something like that , sacrifices by the &apos; 50s .
so it doesn &apos;t have the same efficiency , but it &apos;s basically doable .
so , this is also , at the moment , the core issue of the scene is to increase this availability of technology and also increase the information and the understanding that more people can engage .
because , as i said at the beginning , it &apos;s an extremely important technology , and most people have a relatively little idea of it , and also no chance of getting really good at all .
because , if you just read about it , from secondary literature , that &apos;s not the same thing as if you &apos;ve done it yourself or seen it .
and i think technology is becoming more and more important in our modern societies .
and if you &apos;re an informed citizen , you want to make meaningful decisions in society and you want to talk to them , you need the access to knowledge and to technology .
and you have to do it and understand it in order to do it and understand it .
well , that doesn &apos;t give you a ph.d. at harvard , but it &apos;s much more interesting to count than tribal .
and that then fires in the words of open knowledge and citizen science .
so that , as citizens , you &apos;re going to be able to deal with these scientific technologies .
and that &apos;s the core cause of the biohackers .
these are the people who at least officially agreed on the website , d.i.y.bio-dot-org website .
it &apos;s a relatively remarkable number of people around the world .
and what &apos;s interesting is that they &apos;re also in southeast asia .
that &apos;s what i think they are there to be fewer people than actually exist .
so i know from some of them who haven &apos;t agreed .
and these are just the biohackers now , the individual people .
partly with these hackerspaces , which is to put these places together .
