you know , one of the great sensitivity in traveling , and one of the pleasures in ethnography research is to live with the people who still remember the old days , who still feel their past in the wind , touch it on the rain shining stones , tasting it in the bitter leaves of plants .
together , the countless cultures of the world form a web of spiritual and cultural life that wraps the earth and is as important for the benefit of the earth as the biological life web that you know as a biosphere .
now , the problem -- the problem is that even those of us who have sympathy for the difficult situation of the innate , are looking at them as orginially and colorful , but they &apos;re kind of limited to the past , while the real world , which is our world , is continuing .
and that &apos;s at the very beginning .
as i said , it just started .
and hackerspaces , the computer hackerspaces , because the c-base in berlin was the first , ninety-five hundred .
and this has now become a gigantic network of very good , yes , infrastructural centers that have been represented all over the world .
and we &apos;re hoping , of course , that we &apos;re going to be similar , and then we &apos;re also very well connected , so that we can get more people involved .
and i would invite everyone to engage with it and try something on their own .
now it &apos;s not that simple , but it &apos;s not impossible , if you have enough curiosity and you put enough energy in it , you get a long way .
thank you for listening .
that &apos;s it .
yes , hello .
so , the fact is that you will remember the 20th century , 300 years from now , not for your war or technological innovation , but rather than an era where we were opposed to , and the massive destruction of the biological and cultural diversity on earth , either actively supported or passively accepted , so the problem is not the change .
how do we actually work for people ?
this is a question that i &apos;m very moved to as a designer , but also in the field of research usability and in all things in user experience .
it &apos;s about how to encounter people in interactive media so that they can use these interactive media and make them a very satisfying experience .
because i think the interactive media in us addresses archaic , cognitive models , so paradigms that have been programmed in our biological memory a very , very long time ago , and that we can just reproduce them through interactive media .
and that &apos;s very amazing , because you actually believe that this high-tech that you &apos;re facing is that it actually brings you into the future , but in fact , it &apos;s the future that &apos;s right with us , in our archaic roots .
now , what are archaic models ?
i &apos;ve written down four words , and i &apos;d like to explain them briefly .
in archaic cognitive models , these are the models that we &apos;ve adapted in the pre-industrial times .
to these archaic models , we have a fundamental natural relationship to virtuality .
that sounds basically unusual .
all cultures have been involved in the dance with new possibilities of life .
but i &apos;m going to go back to that in a moment , and i &apos;m going to prove to you that you also have a natural relationship with virtuality .
the second thing is that since this archaic model , we &apos;ve been able to speak very , very imagery , even though we &apos;re using a coded language today .
and the third area , which actually explains itself .
we all know that interactive media is by definition nonlinear , which includes the sensitivity of linearity , and what of course tells us is that we feel the linearity today as normal .
the fourth point is that the story for us is a place of information .
what about the virtuality that is actually the most natural thing in the world ?
i want to prove that to you .
how many doors does the house you live in ?
we &apos;re not going to be able to answer it to me immediately , but this is what &apos;s going to happen , and it &apos;s going to happen right now .
they go through this house in the spirit , so they live in the house , and they look at how many doors there are .
and the problem is not technology itself .
and that &apos;s what they do .
they virtualize reality , and they don &apos;t have computers .
fantastic , right ?
and we &apos;re struggling with the media campus , for example , the virtual reality in our v.r. lab , and we can actually do this all the time .
and this ability to virtualize the virtual reality , they also needed the people in the pre-industrial times , because they didn &apos;t have anything .
they didn &apos;t have books .
or they didn &apos;t have photoolitography .
they didn &apos;t have mass media .
the only thing they had was their head .
and in this head , the memory was going on .
the sioux indians didn &apos;t listen to being less on sioux than they do the bow and arrow when the americans stopped being americans when they were assigning horses and horses .
in this head , knowledge was called , and with these virtual images , the imagination , knowledge has just been passed on .
and that &apos;s why it &apos;s so much rooted in us that we can deal with virtuality so well .
and the interesting thing is , if i can make a little trip .
yes , that &apos;s the case .
what &apos;s interesting about this is that at the time , human beings were at the same time media producers and medium itself .
now , if you think a little bit further .
what are media today ?
then you &apos;ll notice that there &apos;s been a change .
but i &apos;ll come back to that in a minute .
essential tool for information processing has been a story ever since .
not change and technology threaten the integrity of the ethnosphere . it &apos;s power . the ugly face of the rule .
shamanas , priests , so-called knowledge guards , were exposed to preserving knowledge in stories .
and even today , we &apos;re still very , very strong about stories .
the author of the book the storytelling animal , jonathan gotchich , we &apos;re still connected a hundred hours a year with the recipe of stories .
that means for a child who has spent most of his life with the recipe of stories .
now we think our love for stories depends on us as a child on the lap of our parents .
no , no , far lacked .
that goes back much further into the cultures of pre-industrial times .
but for me , in the realm of interactive media , as a particularly impressive thing is that we &apos;ve anchored by se in our biological memory , the ability to think nonlinear .
i brought you an example of the north american tribe of the nootka-indian .
and the lives lived in the coastal region of british columbia .
and as you can see , this is a very island area , and you had to sort of navigate from island to island to get food .
and they did this with something called lead-maps .
you may know that if you &apos;re a little bit interested in it , from the australian native people .
they have similar principles .
they don &apos;t have lead-maps , they used the so-called songlines , or the traumps .
and what &apos;s interesting about this is that the navigation and the topography of regions could be mapped over songs .
whereas the language was subordinated by subordinated rang .
that means navigating about sound and about rhythm .
and these sounds and this rhythm have shown the geology , the topography of a region , and that , of course , has enabled you to defragment these songs and put them together differently and move back to the left , to the right , and also to the output .
why don &apos;t we sing to get from above to b ?
or if we go to the mountains of tibet , where i study a lot recently , you &apos;ll see the ugly face of political dominance .
anyway , not to navigate .
what actually happened ?
this is what happened to the so-called machine age .
we were moving in what we call the avian age before .
what happened is the machine age , and what happened is the book , and it happened , and it &apos;s the photoolitography .
and that &apos;s what happened , is that we &apos;ve shifted the responsibility for our memories and the production of our individual memories to external media .
the book and the image .
so , unfortunately , we have a bit of a process to virtualize god .
virtuality has suddenly become alien to us , and has nothing to do with reality .
bruce brown , a famous design researcher at brighton university , has gone so far as to say that this mass media , he says the book and the image , so not the television , the internet , etc . , and so on , what we call mass media today , that this mass media has fossilized our memories and our ability to virtualize .
you know , the genocide , the physical extinction of people is generally convicted , but the ethnocid , the destruction of people &apos;s lifestyle , is not only convicted , but in general and in many ways , as part of a development strategy .
let &apos;s make a little footprint .
from the avian age to the machine age .
what affects our thinking and our memories ?
then these are fading influences of pre-industrial cultures .
and they are more and more over-prescribed over the centuries by the effects of the machine age .
so instead of remembering ourselves , we have standardized , widespread , common patterns of memories that we can hang our personal memories on .
we &apos;re no longer producing ourselves .
we have an abstract language .
we don &apos;t think of it in pictures anymore , things don &apos;t seem to be in images anymore , but we codify them to our language .
we &apos;ve been used to things happening linear .
and you can &apos;t understand the suffering of tibetans if you haven &apos;t experienced it at the lower level .
and we &apos;ve accepted linearity as a law , and there are only exceptions like non-linearity .
what we &apos;ve left is the story telling .
still , we are very , very arrested to the story as an information facility .
the question is , what &apos;s next ?
we had the vocabulary age , we had the machine age , and we now described what we call the cyber-age .
it sounds very spacey , and it sounds very much like science fiction , i know .
but these concepts of cyber-age , they bring us these possibilities back to rediscover our capabilities .
it &apos;s about virtuality , it &apos;s about non-linearity , it &apos;s about storytelling .
i want to explain that a little bit for a moment .
there are technical concepts like augmented reality , which is the augmented reality .
you can think of this cultural life web as an ethnosphere . ethnosphere can be defined as the total sum of all thoughts and dreams , myths of ideas , inspiration and intuitions that have been created by human imagination since the beginnings of consciousness .
i once traveled to lhasa with a young colleague 6,000 miles from chengdu in west china overseas through southeast tibet to lhasa , and only when i came to lhasa , i saw the face behind the statistics that you hear about : 6,000 holy monuments that were turned into rubble and ashes , 1.2 million people who were murdered by the cades during the cultural revolution .
so if you look at google glass , for example , it &apos;s such a concept of what the virtual world recombine with the real world , which is our monkey to virtualization , which is virtual as something normal , natural , is reacted .
another example is what &apos;s called virtual reality .
as crazy as it may sound in the context of my talk , we &apos;re physically moving into non-existential virtual worlds , right after the holodeck model .
and other examples are the ambients , intelligent systems .
these are spaces that can respond intelligent to a human being .
all of this requires the ability to accept our basic ability to virtuality as a real habitat .
i graduated , and i hope the video works , a very , very beautiful project , which is the bachelor work of michael burk , ann-kathrin krence , joris klause and jan-moritz garbage .
and the last two are here today .
maybe you can stand up for a moment so that you can talk to the two of them about the project at the break .
and i brought this project with me as an example of how to address this archaic , cognitive model again .
the father of this young man was identified as the tag of the tank lama .
the whole thing is a game , i have to say .
which , of course , is extremely opposed to the story , and it &apos;s a computer game .
and when i say computer games , they &apos;re very likely to have eyes that some people are happy people in front of some console or playing with some console in their hands .
anyway , they do it in there .
this is a game for outside .
and that &apos;s specifically meant that i would discover the outside world , so i would rediscover the real world .
and this game connects the virtual world , which is the data that we &apos;re producing with the real world .
i apologize that i have to cut so much .
you can then explain that much better , there &apos;s a lot more to it .
and that is that i discover a city by looking at what places have been positively or negatively twittered .
that meant that he was killed instantly during the chinese invasion .
and so i get a very different view of the city , a very different impression , which is that i see negative and positive zones of a city , and so i get a very different virtual map of a very real city .
and we can now look at that .
ah , what you can see here , sorry , is another little explanation of what you &apos;re about to see .
of course , this virtual world lives in the walls of our cities is clear .
and with a kind of flashlight , we can make these virtual worlds visible .
so , i would like to summarize my talk , and that is , in the sense that the characteristics and the skills that we &apos;ve acquired from the vocabulary age , and that have gone a little bit of a disposal in the machine age , that the ones that are called the cyber age can be reactivated , and that we can , in this way , get back to our roots in this way , complex , technological , new products , not in fact , in the future , but actually to us .
thank you .
yes , i &apos;m very happy to be with you .
i &apos;ve just been asked if this sack is a speaker sack , and it &apos;s going to be mine , instead of speaking .
he &apos;s not going to do that .
his uncle flew into the diaspora with her holiness that brought people to nepal .
i &apos;m also going to resolve what &apos;s in there .
but i &apos;m just going to make it a little bit curious .
yes , kids are naturally curious , or should be curious , designers too .
i &apos;m a designer of the house , so , of course , i &apos;m also looking at the subject of curiosity , and how does the curiosity change our thinking again , and why do we maybe lose curiosity and need to repel it , and so on and so on .
this is a whole series of things that you &apos;re dealing with , besides the actual existence , as a designer .
when professors get curious , they often get buried into this kind of n research semester .
and that &apos;s what i &apos;ve had in the last half-year .
a research semester on natural user interface design .
now you &apos;re going to ask yourself , why do all the designers begin to engage with such natural , archaic forms of communication , interaction and so on ?
and i &apos;m just holding one of these little devices up , because things are supposed to be more intuitive , more natural , user-friendly , and you have to look at what &apos;s actually natural for us humans , what &apos;s usable or intuitive .
his mother was locked in as a punishment for -- to be wealthy of the crime .
and before the background , i &apos;ve been designing in the natural user interface , so the next generation of human computing in the relationship of the human computer is about how our tools or how the computer is changing from the computer to the digital assistant .
so i &apos;ve been looking at when is it natural or intuitive .
maybe you have to take a look at it again .
why does this happen at all ?
so if we look at the development of our society , briefly represented here , we &apos;re now moving from the third into the fourth generation of society or social form .
so from modern to computer society .
every society is shaped by a primarily medium .
at the beginning of the tribal society through language .
that means that you found yourself by talking a common language , you could communicate with each other , moved into the same cave , or in other areas , has formed cities , or villages , and has created , in a way , tribal society .
but the primary medium was language , something very natural , something very living .
he was smuggled into prison at the age of two to hide under her rockcipal , because she couldn &apos;t live without him .
you also had to learn , so no little child can talk about nature , but we learn it sucessively and proportionately .
that was then dissolved by the ancient society and the first form of abstraction .
this was a huge outcry at the time , because , of course , you started manifest the living language in the form of writing , which means what fluid and alive is , i start and carve it in stone , and i manipulate it .
and depending on how i carve , and when i carve , it &apos;s a very different narrative , of course , than if there &apos;s a living kind of thing .
but then sukessive moved this script as a primarily medium , maintained .
then came the next generation that we actually live in today primarily .
this is just the printed and printed script with gutenberg and others .
at the time , it was the same monkey , where adel , klerus and others said , are you really insane when people start reading , then the afterwards want to talk , and of course , that &apos;s completely fatal .
and now we get to the next generation , and the exciting thing is , a generational shift is only every few hundred years , and we &apos;re really in this phenomenal phase , that we &apos;re doing this .
of course , it &apos;s totally confusing to us , because we see on the one hand the new media , social media , facebook , etc . , etc .
the sister who did this brave act was brought into a education camp .
with total transparency , what the new thinking is , what bangs on the old thinking , don &apos;t say that in the lasagne horse meat and no beef is anymore or other phenomena , which is i just want to do it and i don &apos;t want to do it .
and these two worlds are just banging together , new and old thinking .
the exciting thing about this is , if you look at this , this new society , this computer society , it expands very many mechanisms , principles and archaic paradigms from tribal society .
but now , not at the local level , but at the global level .
we understood that the weather is global .
that the issue of ecology is a global issue .
not , if i think local ecologically here , and the neighbor thinks less ecologically , it doesn &apos;t work anymore .
that means that the local village has actually become a global village with the same principles , of course , possible , intuitively , but also total transparency .
as you knew in the village at the time , who has what to do with whom and when , this is what &apos;s happening now about this expansion of our self through these mobile ending devices at a global level .
is it that we know globally accumulating and accumulating faster and faster and better .
one day , she stepped out of the window on a armband maos , and for that transmission , she had to go into a heavy job camp for seven years .
as it used to happen in the village .
in front of the background , i &apos;ve been looking at this , and what does it mean , actually , what &apos;s natural for us , what is it that we might have lost , but what &apos;s instinctive for us , so what makes the difference ?
because people often come , they can &apos;t do it user-friendly , so everyone can deal with it .
so you have to deal with what that means , and not just change it , that it &apos;s different , but it &apos;s going to be better .
and when is , of course , a little intuitive , and how can i , as a creator , influence it , and shape things so that they &apos;re user-friendly , so they &apos;re intuitive , because then they &apos;re fun and they &apos;re easy to use .
you &apos;re busy , even during the study , with the subject of perception and perceptual psychology .
and that &apos;s , of course , where you start and you look and you say , okay , now i &apos;m just looking into the inner self .
and what does it look like in there ?
so how do we work when we look in there ?
and what does it mean , of course , intuitively and how do our channels work in perception , and how does cognitive processing work ?
the suffering of tibetans can be intolerable , but the redeeming spirit of people is something unforgettable .
because steve jobs once said you need to dig deeper to understand how it works .
so you really have to look in detail , if i want to make something usable or intuitive , what does that mean at the core .
and as you can see , you can see that a is our seven senses , most people think we have only five , and now it &apos;s actually seven recognized , there &apos;s certainly the next , eighth sense , and as an extension of our self .
and looking at how do we process information , how do we take information ?
to say , what is information ?
information is every difference that makes a difference .
a lot of people use the word , but they don &apos;t even know what it means .
but i have to understand at the core , understand in the creature , when information becomes information , when will data and information , so that i know how to make things intuitive or , of course , manual .
and of course , how design affects perception .
we see this here , when i make things , i can make them confusing , like on the right , where i don &apos;t know what &apos;s salt and pepper , or i can sort of make them intuitive by showing things .
and at the end of it , we &apos;re really in a choice . do we want to live in a monochromatic world of monotony or in a polychromatic world of diversity ?
so much more natural , in a pot , but i kind of see where is salt and pepper in it .
and when i tell someone , you give me salt or pepper , they &apos;re going to think about where &apos;s inside the right .
and just reaching the left intuitively , and then hopefully there &apos;s no sugar in there , giving me the salt accordingly .
but also , our perception of itself , how does it deceive us too .
for example , this perception in the context .
the right circle looks bigger than the little one , even though that &apos;s not the case , but they &apos;re equally big , and yet our perception changes , depending on what context we put things in .
does anybody know what that is ?
come on .
pattern recognition should work .
that &apos;s where it gets more like my glasses .
the ethnosphere is the great legacy of humanity .
margaret mead , the great anthropologist said before she died , that it &apos;s her greatest fear that , as we move towards a thread , shaped , generic worldview , we would not only see the entire range of human imagination reduced to a mindset , but that one day we woke up from a dream , and we forgot that there were ever other possibilities .
so it &apos;s a circle .
a second circle already starts to correlate or associate certain similarity .
and if i &apos;m going to put a halboval in there , then suddenly we don &apos;t just see one more unit , which is circle , circle and circle and , but we see one unit , we don &apos;t see more parts , a circle , a circle , a different one .
it &apos;s called the gestalt law , or the gestalt psychology , that also affects us in perception .
it &apos;s important for the creators , they mostly have this in the first semester , the great design laws .
shape-law of the nearby , the law of the continuity and so on .
often in the third , forget again .
but that &apos;s an essential component , if you want to make things intuitively possible .
the next phenomenon , which is also very interesting , of vision .
sounds very banal , but it &apos;s very exciting when you get closer to it .
and it &apos;s humbling to think that maybe our species has been around for 600,000 years .
so we have the eyes in the front , and now you think we see from the front to the back .
that &apos;s wrong .
you see from the back to the front .
namely , they projy an assumption to the front that they see something that they recognize , unprecedented circle .
that is , we &apos;re just projing our vision before we see it , and then we &apos;re going to put it in the back of our seaweed machine to say , okay .
i &apos;ve got a cognitive recovery , you &apos;ve projugated what you want to see .
and that &apos;s there , and then that comes back .
and then it goes back to the front , because the back doesn &apos;t look at the front and say , well , look really again , and make sure that what you see is what you want to see .
and then it goes back , and then it &apos;s actually just seen .
so a very , very exciting process of how certain things are going on and what kind of millisecond areas these things are happening .
the neolithic revolution that brought us agriculture , and at that moment , submitted us to the cult of the seeds , replaced the poetry of the shame through the prose of the priesthood and replaced hierarchy , specialization and surplus -- only 10,000 years ago .
i don &apos;t know who knows this picture .
that &apos;s exactly the same thing that i just described .
now everybody from this pattern is trying to see something .
i don &apos;t know who recognizes it .
does anyone see anything ?
a dalmatiner , exactly .
once i see that , that &apos;s a dalmatiner in there , you know that .
you &apos;ll never forget it because i &apos;ll show you where the dalmatiner is .
now you see the dalmatiner .
and on , now you keep seeing it .
the modern industrial world as we know it is hardly 300 years old .
that is , i &apos;ve actually spoiled you now , that you can &apos;t see any pattern in it , but i &apos;ve concerted you in a very short period of time , to see this dog again and again in this deworthy picture .
and this is this projection of vision , feedback , vision .
now i know , and now i projy forward , that i see the dalmatiner .
i see the dalmatiner .
so , very , very exciting processes , which then , in this , yes , gray , it &apos;s actually not , but here it is in this rosane mass .
does anyone know what are three seconds ?
long , yes .
that &apos;s our present .
so , it &apos;s always interesting to know as a designer .
if i know something takes three seconds to sort of take me out of the present into the past loop , i can also bridge very well wait times when i do it by doing it at three seconds .
now , this surface story doesn &apos;t tell me that we have all the answers to the challenges that we face in the next few millennia .
that &apos;s what he has to process as a present .
then it goes into the past , and so i can bridge very elegant waiting times , for example , on the computer , if i know this phenomenon .
what takes five milliseconds ?
yes , milliseconds .
it &apos;s also a very exciting phenomenon .
that &apos;s the time you fall in love .
that means , notice , if you know that now , notice who you &apos;re looking at for how long , because i don &apos;t take a gun for what can happen .
and six milliseconds , a very exciting phenomenon .
that &apos;s the time period of most of the perceptions that we have .
that is , this first impression happens at a rapid speed , how we perceive things .
if we ask these myriad world cultures about the importance of being human , they respond with 10,000 different voices .
and as we also see things , what we &apos;re looking at , and how we sort of defend ourselves against our environment , so that we can think about it accordingly .
of course , the gestures are not just about perceptual and neural processing or cognitive sergonomic , but primarily about the subject of human object .
so how does a human being deal with certain things ?
there &apos;s product language , which is the practical functions , so formalaesthetic aspects or formalaesthetic aspects .
there are signature functions , where i know exactly where i have to reach .
but there are also symbolic functions , and why does someone give a little bit of a pie , where hardly anything fits in , so horrendous amounts of money , even though it &apos;s not so practical ?
that &apos;s where we are , rather , at the symbolic level , at the level of meaning that we are , of course , concerned with as a creator .
back to my actual theme of natural user interface and the subject , which , of course , is usability .
usability always means , how can i get to a certain goal , or how can a user in a certain context be effective , efficient and satisfying .
so it &apos;s more like the norm .
and in this song , we &apos;re going to rediscover the possibility of being what we are : people with full consciousness , who are aware of the importance of the fact that all people and gardens have to be able to flourish a space , and there are great moments of optimism .
how can i make something possible user-friendly ?
can i use that directly , or can i need a manual , or do i need a corresponding training .
and it &apos;s less usable or usable .
that i do this just differently and more beautiful doesn &apos;t mean that it &apos;s better to handle .
you also have to understand that .
and if you look in part at the software that we just saw , you &apos;ll also understand why ninety-nine percent of our software today is less intuitive or not usable , including the i-pad in many areas or i-phone , even though it &apos;s much more intuitive than classic software .
now , intuitive usability is not just since apple is a fundamental economic factor , a fundamental factor of success , when i want to use technology devices to people .
why ?
because in general , through this new kind of usability , the natural user , we are , for example , five times faster on average , on our goal .
you have to imagine that if you do something of the classic softrware , it takes five hours , and with this new kind of natural software , it only takes an hour .
here &apos;s a photograph i took at the north end of the baffin islands , when i went to the narwhal hunt with inuits , and this man , olaya , told me a wonderful story of his grandfather .
it doesn &apos;t mean that you &apos;re going to be able to go home probably four hours more , but your employer , or someone , will come up with the four hours that they &apos;re dealing with .
but i want to say that , of course , it &apos;s a corresponding increase in performance to get certain things .
if we go back to software , here &apos;s the first command line interfaces , which were very abstract , where it took months to deal with these systems .
and then the next one that &apos;s already been working with the newer neural model or mental model like the software eergonoma said , which is , you &apos;d have an idea of something , the metaphor , the metaphor of a desktop to make the computer usable .
so not more zeros and ones or cryptic codes , but a metaphor .
and that made it much more user-friendly , but it &apos;s much better , of course .
the next generation of graphic user surfaces is working a lot more with behavior .
so that &apos;s where , as a designer , i &apos;m much more likely to shape behavior than what it looks like .
this is also a paradigm shift .
that all of a sudden , the appearance of success , the usability is becoming an application .
the canadian government did not always work very well with the inuit , and during the 50th years in the process of establishing our ruling , they were forced to move in settlements .
and if i go one step further into this natural user interfaces , where , by voice , by touch , by gesture , by mouse and by cursor , i &apos;m even faster and more immediate .
but that also leads me back to the point when are things getting more intuitive ?
if you get more intuitive , and then i have to punish my little friend back here and look at what does that mean from the point of view of cognition , when is it really intuitive ?
and that &apos;s always a little intuitive for us human beings , when i have to think about it a little bit .
so apparently , he doesn &apos;t like to think , but he does want to make it easy .
the less i think about it , the more intuitive it is .
and what does that mean for the designer ?
that is , if we look at the fact that we can transfer existing action models from one to another , for example , the metaphor , then i can use it as a designer .
that means that i can actually transfer an intuitive human action model to a software to make the software much more usable .
of course , the question is , what is the most intuitive action scheme of us human beings , and now i &apos;ve already betrayed it .
the grandfather of this old man refused to refuse .
this is the so-called osit model .
this is what each of us uses , and osit is an acronym , and it stands for orientative , selective , informed , transformed .
that &apos;s what each of you does all the time , but it makes it unconscious , and it sort of intuitive , or partly instinctive .
the model is already being exploded in the womb , and it &apos;s intercultural , so it works around the world at young and old , and it &apos;s being used all the time by us without knowing that most of us have been there .
osit osit itself is going to be about 50 to 70 thousand times of us ever after activity , so in the sleep , you found that it &apos;s going to be punished less often than the day .
i can now orient this mental action model , select , inform , transfer it to an interaction system .
and through this kind of transmission , much like the metaphor of the desktop , but now not a metaphor of a physical object , but a metaphor of a action pattern , of a action principle .
and this is at a higher degree of user friendship than the transmission of a classic metaphor , which is the desktop .
and if i transfer that now , for example , where i orient as a supervision , select as a choice , inform in the trap , it comes up to me , i can look at it in detail , and yes , transcribe , i can throw it somewhere , or send somebody , or buy it , and so on .
then i can transmit the whole thing .
it &apos;s the symbol of all of what we are , and what we &apos;re capable of as an amazingly knowledgeable species .
the family that was afraid of his life took off all the weapons and all the tools .
i &apos;m going to try this through an example .
i mean , everybody &apos;s eaten cake .
so i &apos;m now interacting with the object , and i can zoom out again , zoom in .
i &apos;ll get the whole overview , and i can now filter this , and i can say , just show me all the things with chocolate .
and all of a sudden , you have an interface , which is much more intuitive and much more natural .
because i can grab things like the bits , touch them , and they come up to me , is much more natural than when over hierarchical organized websites , or other mechanisms , in a way , can make these things available .
imagination is more important than knowledge , and with that phrase , i &apos;d like to close with giving a and reference to it , and designers have to think differently to come up with new solutions , and in that sense , i thank you very much for your attention and request .
i want to give you a very particular aspect of curiosity .
the first one , when you grow up as a child , as a baby , is that you take care of what the divorce you have , right ? and depending on whether your parents have allowed you to play , more or less , in the pottery , the more , in a way , your curiosity is , of course , blown up .
and the curiosity doesn &apos;t learn .
now you have to know that the inuit is not afraid of the cold . they used it to their advantage .
that &apos;s why all of you who are here and are curious , are actually people who have a property that you can &apos;t learn .
i &apos;m going to talk about , basically , this whole environmental discussion , world demise , 40 years of club-of-rome , in quality .
and there &apos;s a central point to this .
and it depends on phosphorus .
give pee a chance .
they give + every day about two grams of phosphorus , and every day they have to take two grams of phosphorus .
otherwise you can &apos;t have teeth .
they can &apos;t store energy .
they can &apos;t have bones .
we could only glide as amorphous mollusks through the world &apos;s ocean .
the slides of their sled were originally made out of fish that was wrapped into caribbean skin .
if we don &apos;t actually take a phosphorus and give it off .
what &apos;s amazing is that we &apos;re dealing with something that &apos;s actually a self-understanding thing , but it &apos;s not like that .
because everyone is talking about energy , but nobody is talking about the phosphorus problem .
the phosphorus problem is much more critical .
we depend on two countries .
we only have phosphorus for two years , and already , by the phosphorus mining around the world , we have a lot more uranium in the environment than are used in all nuclear plants .
in the last 20 years alone , 50,000 tons of uranium has been distributed in our fields in germany .
and that &apos;s what we &apos;re recording .
it makes leukemia in children .
and we think we would protect the environment if we &apos;re a little less harmful .
the man &apos;s grandfather was not afraid of the arctic night or the blowing storm .
so , for example , shake the environment , drive less car .
shake the environment , make less waste .
shake the environment , use less energy .
but that &apos;s not a protection .
that &apos;s like , if i said , shake your child , just beat it three times instead of five times .
that &apos;s just a little less destruction .
if we think from the weights to the bathroom , our entire earth will sooner or later be a cemetery .
that &apos;s why thinking about the weigh to the weight .
and the most important thing is to look at the ground , first of all .
in the ground , over 60 percent of the carbon is stored .
he swallowed out , dropped his pants out of seaweed and defeated into his hand , and when the feces began to freeze , he formed them into the form of a knife .
right now , we &apos;re building corn and losing between 11 and 30 kilograms per hectare , or doing the square meter .
that means we lose about five thousand times more in the ground than is reformed .
we can , of course , first look at the waste problem .
and everything is packaging or content .
in openly , for example , in the garbage , 20 percent of the garbage is now wind .
and because we get older , the wind gets bigger .
this is , in a sense , all of them in the pre-wind phase .
yes ?
a baby needs about six thousand wind .
we could reduce that by 10 percent , of course , but what does that do ?
he sprayed saliva on the sides of the fecalian knife , and when it was completely frozen , he amazed a dog with it .
this is balanced in china in a second .
that &apos;s completely trivial .
so the question is , how do we deal with these windmills ?
here &apos;s a proof , by the way , that men are not pigs .
i want to tell you .
because the phosphorus is given excrement in the pigs about the solid ingredients .
the people over the urine .
yes .
so men can &apos;t be pigs .
because it &apos;s evidence , isn &apos;t it ?
he contains the dog and improvised a dish , took the dog &apos;s skeleton and improvised a sledge , relaxed a different dog and swore over the ice sheets with the fecalian knife on the belt .
traditionally , we think in the environmental debate , we are too many in the world .
and if you give the people who , if you tell people to exist , if you said that would be better , you wouldn &apos;t be there , they will become refining and hostile .
and so someone like al gore , one of our great heroes , there &apos;s nothing more important than stabilizing the human population .
in israel , if you save a human life , you save the earth .
here it says , the more you kill , the better .
yes .
the first question is , are we really too many ?
if you look at the ants , the weight of the ants on earth , the ants weigh about four times more than we humans .
i could also take termites , but in the united states , no one likes termites , in so far , even though they &apos;re vegetarians .
that is , the ants weigh much more than us .
so you can do something out of nothing .
and because they work much harder , physically , than we do , and because they live only three to six months , they &apos;re in weight , in the energy consumption , a little bit of 30 billion people .
that means we &apos;re not too many , we &apos;re too stupid , right ?
and where you see how far we are away from what we really wanted and could do , and how sad we are , that we are even on earth , you can see that , for example , openbach has a program to 20 , you want to be a climaneutral here , right ?
you can only be climaneutral if you don &apos;t exist , right ?
the only chance .
have you seen a climate-neutral tree ?
yes ?
one ?
that means our whole intelligence means that we want to be grimmer than trees , right ?
yes ?
and this , in many ways , is a symbol of the resistance of the inuit and all the indigenous people in the world .
no tree is carbon neutral .
fortunately , not , yes ?
there &apos;s no overpopulation problem with trees .
there are still six billion trees in the amazon area alone .
have you ever heard of some of the overpopulation problems of trees ?
that means that all of our intelligence means that we want to be dummer than trees .
and where you see , even at something like demeter , the most striking bio-agriculture , doesn &apos;t allow our own metabolic products to go back .
every year , we lose three million tons of phosphorus that would really have to go back in circles .
and that &apos;s too many of us .
just about it .
the canadian government gave back the inuit in april , 1999 , complete control over an area bigger than california and texas combined .
that means we feel so guilty about the earth that we say . there &apos;s no bio-land building , no bioland , no course , and as they all mean , that allow our own excrements to go back .
isn &apos;t that sad ?
that &apos;s too many of us .
it &apos;s safe to be less harmful in terms of oil consumption .
but where are we useful ?
we &apos;re trying to minimize our ecological footprint , but it &apos;s about having a big footprint that &apos;s useful .
we want to be good for society , we want to be good for the economy , but when it comes to the environment , the highest thing is not to be there , right ?
nullemissions , yes ?
you can only have nullemissions if you &apos;re not there .
even if you shoot yourself now , you would have emissions .
and just as the biosphere has been strongly discarded , this has happened to the ethnosphere -- just at a greater speed .
it &apos;s our new homeland , and it &apos;s called nunavut .
so you can &apos;t solve that .
we can do it differently .
we can regain our nutrients .
we do agriculture in brazil where we regain the nutrients .
directly , we can get nutrients back in this way in agriculture .
we do this in china , for example , where we take the waste from right away .
in china , a night victim today is called a honey pot , so to say , yes ?
and in our western world , we &apos;ve always been too stupid to bring back our nutrients .
that is , the whole western civilization-story is that the city has only always taken over , but the farmer has never given back .
in doing so , the cities had to grow more and more , because the farmers went to the cities , and the cities had to keep moving away their nutrients .
it &apos;s an independent area . they control all the minerals .
that &apos;s why all the western kingdoms have always expanded , until they haven &apos;t made the infrastructure , and then they &apos;re imploded .
yes ?
in china , it was different .
you &apos;ve made civilization over five thousand years of age , because you &apos;ve always been able to bring back the nutrients .
even today , when they &apos;re invited to eat in china , they &apos;re expecting for food to stay until they &apos;re looking for the toilet .
because it &apos;s unfriendly to go and take the nutrients .
they were invited to eat them , not for nutrient theft .
that is , you can see on the internet , how to regain the nutrients .
the beauty of this is , if you do this , so agriculture , produces biogas , on a hectare country with five thousand people in favelas , so a farmer can produce about a thousand-odd hundred dollars and wait for the plant to grow chickens and pig breeding and ducks and vegetables and fish .
and the great thing about this is that the crime rate in the favelas goes back more than 90s .
an amazing example , like a nation , a state that can seek and achieve recovery with its inhabitants .
so we don &apos;t have to control people to be very bad at being possible .
we can support them to be good .
this is , of course , high-tech agriculture , but the plants carry themselves .
the byproduct is clean water .
and they &apos;re designed like this , by the design that a farmer can just fix them .
that is , the crime rates go back .
and none of these facilities , we &apos;ve now built over 100 in the last 20 years , none of these facilities have ever been sabotted .
you could just throw in a liter of aluminum , and then the plant would be ruined for years .
don &apos;t happen .
that means we don &apos;t have to control people to be less miserable .
and finally , i think it &apos;s pretty obvious , at least for those of us who have traveled to these distant goals of the earth to realize that they have not been removed at all .
we can support them to be good .
that means we have to get phosphorus back .
and by the way , if you want to do something out of it , you write down , in germany , the best fit of all the sewage plants is in frankfurt .
unfortunately , they &apos;re not in openbach , but maybe they can help the frankfurniture a little bit .
because the france plant could best regain phosphorus .
and it has to go back .
we see that phosphorus is really critical .
and we see that it &apos;s going through .
we &apos;ve now spent over three years in holland .
the dutch government has explained that they will be the first country in the world to regain phosphorus .
they are the countries of someone &apos;s home .
but we need it overall .
you know , there are two countries that control almost 70 percent of the phosphorus in the world .
opec is a bunch of orphanages .
that &apos;s six twenty-four countries that control 40 percent of the oil supply .
and we &apos;ll be able to replace the oil with other energy carriers .
but the phosphorus is not going to be replaced .
that &apos;s not about making the existing a little less bad , but it &apos;s about doing something right .
and most of all , first of all , is to ask what the right thing is .
that is , it &apos;s about efficiency , not about efficiency .
of course , in holland , it &apos;s easier to understand , because in holland , the country is built on flowers .
they represent parts of the human imagination that go back in time , and for all of us , the dreams of these kids , like the dreams of our own children , become part of the geography of hope .
yes ?
imagine if , for example , your wife is sad , if you annoyed her , you come with 50 roses .
completely inefficient .
but very effectively , yes ?
or take a lip pen .
a woman in germany eats about six comma three kilograms in her life .
it &apos;s there .
it &apos;s not exactly scientific , because we don &apos;t know how much kissing is being kissed .
but a lip pen , even in that lighting , i can tell you , is completely inefficient , but really effective , right ?
one of the things that &apos;s beautiful in life is not efficient .
what we &apos;re trying to do at national geographic eventually is we think politicians can never achieve anything .
so it &apos;s not resource efficiency , it &apos;s efficiency .
to ask , what &apos;s the right thing to do ?
not to burn the enlightenment a little bit better and deposit it with it , and to lose all the materials in the burn plant for cycles , but to ask for the first time , how do you close cycles ?
imagine mozart efficiently .
yes ?
if i invite you to dinner and say , yes , there &apos;s a tablet with openbach flavor and a glass of water .
wonderful , &apos; ne ?
that &apos;s efficient .
everything that &apos;s beautiful in life is not efficient .
if you fall in love with someone , efficiently ?
we believe that polemics -- we believe that polemics is not persuasive , but we believe that storytelling can change the world , and so we &apos;re probably the best institution for storytelling in the world . our website is getting 35 million hits every month .
yes ?
that means everything that counts in life is not about saving , avoiding , reducing .
the whole environmental debate .
we tell people , oh , you don &apos;t have an environmental awareness in the south .
no , throwing away is exactly the right thing , right ?
at any point where you throw away , from , yes , you create life opportunities again .
but the wrong things .
if you throw away the wrong things , you have a waste problem .
in the way we think about north .
there is a disadvantaged footprint .
156 nations send our tv channel .
if you walk , yes , every footprint destroys the ground .
because the soil will die off the mosses , and the wind and the water will wash away the floor .
but if you &apos;re in italy , every footprint means that the water remains in the meadow longer .
so , it &apos;s about creating a big footprint that becomes a wetland .
not guilt management .
we say sustainability in germany .
yes ?
but if i ask you , how about your wife ?
what do you say then ?
sustainable .
our magazines are read by millions .
then i say , heartfelt pity , right ?
that &apos;s the minimum right now .
so don &apos;t save , avoid , avoid .
every waste is nutrient .
and it &apos;s a lust when you see in italy , as people in the high bow are smashing out of the car like this .
because , you know , that &apos;s a fun process .
it &apos;s a form of refour-behavior , right ?
you can show , i was there .
but with the right design , here we go .
for example , we &apos;ve developed an ice cream package , which is at room temperature fluid .
no biologist would say , for example , that 50 percent or more of all species are just about to die out , because it &apos;s just not true . and yet , this -- the most apocalyptic scenarium in the field of biodiversity -- is almost not the most optimistic scenario of what we know as the most optimistic scenario in the field of cultural diversity .
and we &apos;re doing a series of trips into the ethnosphere where we take our audiences to places of such cultural wonders that they will be blinded by the blessed , and hopefully , one after the other , they will take the central epiphany of anthropology : that this world has deserved to exist in a variety of ways that we can find a way of life in a truly multicultural pluralistic world where the wisdom of all people can contribute to our common well-being .
they can throw them away where they go and stand .
in two hours , it builds up everywhere .
and it contains seeds of rare plants so that they can throw away to biodiversity .
that means we &apos;re useful , not less harmful .
so there are two cycles .
it &apos;s not all to be composable , of course .
a television or a washing machine , they just use it , they don &apos;t use it .
just the things that veil , like the shoe , like the brakes , like the authors , they have to be so that they go into biological systems .
the things that are only used are going into technical systems .
but today we &apos;re just talking about the biological systems .
thank you .
yes ?
for example , the sneaker , right ?
very direct advertising , not for the company puma per se , but for you to help this company make these products successful .
because we don &apos;t make things free .
yes ?
so , if i invite you to eat and say , this is free of chicken , it doesn &apos;t help you anything .
no , we figure out what &apos;s inside .
positive .
so it &apos;s not like detox .
not toxic in it .
what i &apos;m going to show you , first of all , as quickly as possible , is the basic work , a new technology that we &apos;ve given to microsoft as part of an exception just a year ago , and this is seadragon , and it &apos;s an environment where you can either locally or remove with huge amounts of visual data .
it &apos;s all in it that &apos;s useful .
these are the first shoes that you can put the cavalry launch on the pedestrian light , and the rubber can go in biological circles , right ?
all of it is composable of it .
and if we can do it , of course , for adidas , for nike , for hennes and mauritz and the whole textile industry .
and that &apos;s half the world &apos;s wastewater problems that are caused by the textile industry .
that &apos;s why they help with them , ask people .
hey , puma , are you really serious ?
because they &apos;ve changed the chairman twice now .
and i &apos;m not sure you &apos;re really going to stay here .
so , help me a little bit of it .
we see many , many gigabytes of digital photos here that you can seamlessly and continuously rearrange in any way .
but it goes .
yes .
what &apos;s just been shown .
that &apos;s going on .
we can do things now that , if they &apos;re veiling , if they &apos;re going to break , they can go into biological cycles .
technical cycles are the same .
there &apos;s a direct renaming system for this .
this is the first ecological backpack , actually , to go back into the cycle .
that too , so in every store , you can get things back .
when you get to that , right ?
and it doesn &apos;t matter how much information we look at , how big these collections are , or how big the images are .
do you remember the wind again ?
right now , it &apos;s garbage .
all over the place , these winds are rum , almost .
in the countries where people come to money .
it &apos;s up to the deponia , but it &apos;s also in the landscape , right ?
if we change the plastics , so that it can go into biological systems , if we change the water stores , inside , that you can just go back to cellulosic base , you can plant hundreds of 50 trees with a baby in israel or in tunisia .
yes ?
if you take these winds , you shrink them , you sterilize them , and you take the powder to plant trees .
so the baby is carbon positive for the whole life , from the beginning .
so , we don &apos;t need to be climaneutral , we can be climate positive .
most of you are digital photos of a camera , but this is , for example , a scan of the library of congress , and it &apos;s in a range of 300 megapix .
it &apos;s kind of a behavioral poop print .
yeah , so to speak .
yes ?
we can do that .
we can reinvent everything again .
i set up an institute .
there are a lot of people working there now , and they can all get involved .
there &apos;s an extra clue to that , cradle-to-cradle club , where everyone can participate .
so , not saving , avoiding , reducing , not debt management , but intelligent waste .
does that make you curious ?
it doesn &apos;t make any difference , because the only thing that can restrict the performance of a system like this is the number of pixels on your screen in every moment . it also has a very flexible architecture .
thank you .
the work of interpreting .
music as a language .
in the description of my talk , i am written that as an interpreter , i am a translator , which is in the english word sense .
interprets are translators of written notes in clinical music .
that , as a translator , you don &apos;t just have to translate the text into a different language , but you also have to understand the deeper sense of words and words , so that there &apos;s a meaningful translation , everybody who has to do with foreign languages .
already from german to english , it can require more knowledge , once you &apos;re concerned about poetry or even poetry .
but stranger , it &apos;s for layman , what we do musicians with our music language .
as an interpreter of a piece of music , i first have only the written notes .
you think the composer wrote into the grades exactly everything he imagined .
this is a whole book , an example of non-image data .
in fact , the notes are very vague and inaccurate .
these notes are about as accurate or inaccurate as a verbal , even though very seemingly penible , description of a landscape .
because in this verbal landscape description , the smell of flowers is not to smell the degree of the green , not to hear the saws of the wind , not to feel .
that is , the interpret has to translate this inexact fear of the emergency language into another , which is audible , concrete , nonverbal music language .
today , i want to translate what else i &apos;m using musical , so interpreting , again , into verbal language .
so basically , a translation of translation .
so i prefer to do the whole thing in german , because if i had to translate it into english again , it would be equivalent to me to translation of translation .
so the music , for me , works a little bit like the spoken language .
the notified notes have the function of the letters of a script .
so it &apos;s not enough to just learn how to read notes and press the keys on the piano or the right place on a violin string .
this is bleak house of dickens . every column is a chapter .
because that would be just the letters that you &apos;ve learned to paint .
the point of letters is that when you can get the language to it .
so it takes music to learn the music language process at least as long as it is for spoken language .
now , there are also defects , whether you learn to use it , just passively understands it , or you can talk actively , to the musical native language .
the work of the interpreter starts kind of like a theater director .
so , after you first chose to play a piece , because you &apos;re excited about it , you &apos;re going to explore the emergence of the composition .
you collect information about the piece in the secondary literature .
you read in the letters , the dials , the notes , or whether there are words , thoughts of the composer itself .
you study the works that he composed before and after .
you hire comparison .
to prove that it &apos;s really a text and not a picture , we can do something like this to really show that this is a real representation of texts and not a picture .
the reasons to write it .
how and what did he feel ?
what were its circumstances of life , like society and politics ?
i &apos;m interested in all of this .
you think of yourself in this time by , for example , looking at contemporary images or reading literature .
but over time , as an interpret , you also have a rich knowledge about the composer that you play more often , and it makes you easier to think in and feel like you are .
the composer becomes more and more like a friend that you live with .
his cause to write the piece becomes more and more of my personal cause to play it .
now that the notes are anything but an accurate record of the cause of the composer , but only a scaffold , i now turn this scaffold to fill it back with meaning and meaning .
i then say , in my own words , what might be written between this framework .
and the key indicator of that is the extinction of languages .
maybe this is an artificial way of reading an e-book .
i play explaining what these sounds might have to mean .
now for me and for the composer at the time and what you could now mean for him today .
every tone , every phrase , gets a sense of it , because i feel it myself , because it jumps out of my own personal now .
it &apos;s got to be consistent for me here and now , otherwise i can &apos;t convince my audience that this is my cause .
it &apos;s a very happy concert over and over again , if i can have the experience , the piece that i &apos;ve been working in advance for as long as i &apos;ve been re-imagining .
how to recover a happy new day , although always with the same rituals of life , stand up , breakfast , go to work , i do the same piece over and over again .
i grew back a day older , changing seasons , my pulse goes slower at night than in the morning , in a concert hall , it takes longer for the sound to come back than at home .
i notice the breathing of the audience , consciously or unconsciously .
all of this affects me , and all of this also affects my experience with the composition .
it &apos;s wonderful , too , when i &apos;m standing on stage with a duo partner , and we have the same wavelength .
i wouldn &apos;t recommend it .
then the same thing happens in a good , appropriate conversation .
you bring in a new idea , and it &apos;s going to be answered with a reaction .
it &apos;s exciting , because then things happen that we didn &apos;t test , and what you can &apos;t sample .
it &apos;s great fun to make music in this way , and you as the audience , you &apos;ve experienced how music communicates alive .
so every concert is a different concert .
i &apos;m never going to play as i am at that moment .
i can &apos;t play as in 20 years today .
i &apos;m going to have more life experience than today , and so i &apos;m going to have a lot more color on my palette of music than i do today .
i &apos;m sure i &apos;m going to cut some color pots out too , but i &apos;m going to get new ones .
have a nice concrete example of this .
this is a more realistic case . this is a copy of the guardian .
it was on a piano cursor for music students in my beloved old teacher , professor jürgen , a famous beethoven specialist , concert pianist and longtime professor of music college here in stuttgart .
unfortunately , i was way too young , so that he was already emerged when i finally started studying .
but i was very fortunate to meet him at the age of three , three , and so i was in my school classes .
i was 17 when i went back to one of his classes , and i played the last of the four ballads of chopin , a late work .
he asked me what the introduction of this ballad was for me .
this is such a traded part .
and in my youth , i said , expectation .
and he was screaming , and he was like , you know ?
that has to be the difference in aging .
because for me , it means memory .
every big picture is the beginning of a section .
he was over 60s .
well , you still have dreams with 17 , but you don &apos;t have any significant memories .
i play this piece every few years , and it &apos;s always changed for me , even though not a single note has changed .
every time it &apos;s exciting , because i keep reading something new .
this is an example from a very different area . monet has painted the seerose x times .
it &apos;s always the same garden , but in different daytime , in different light .
he translated the sea eroses in a different way , as he saw them , as they were looking at him in that moment .
his personal impressions of the seeroses .
the x-time interpretation of a piece is like this .
meanwhile , i &apos;m also older than chopin at age 30 when he wrote the piece .
and that really gives you the pleasure and the good experience of reading a real paper copy of a magazine or a newspaper , which is a kind of medium with multiple scales .
he lived only ninety-three years .
and it &apos;s important for me to keep looking into the notes , even though i mean to be able to memorize them .
to keep the twin , right with the composer .
because the notes are the only connection to him .
most of all , when he died .
now , how do you start talking about the language of music ?
i said yes , it takes about as long as it is for spoken language .
often the music class is that you learn how to read the notes .
you &apos;re basically learning to read first before you &apos;re just talking a word .
you learn to find the notes on the instrument .
we &apos;ve also done something at the corner of this particular copy of the guardian .
when all of the fingers are moving in time and right as it is in the notes , sounds come out , and they sound like music together .
if this is a faulty thing , the student will get the next hard piece .
interpretation is barely spoken in the early class .
all right , there &apos;s a presto on the front , which is a quick piece .
lento , slowly .
and loud and quiet signs , f and b , etc .
that &apos;s what most of you here know .
but even though you put these things in place , it &apos;s still just a little bit technical .
and it &apos;s still not an interpretation .
i wonder .
we &apos;ve designed a false display with very high resolution , which is much higher than a normal display , and we &apos;ve added more content .
i wonder that you often forget something very fundamental .
that in order to make music on the instrument , your musical doing and feeling should be there before .
that &apos;s what singing is .
a child who didn &apos;t learn singing , because the parents didn &apos;t pretend , it won &apos;t do it by themselves .
it &apos;s like talking .
it &apos;s necessary to have its own experience and idea of music , and then to get it through another possibility , through an instrument , to sound .
people who have never been singing have never felt immediately with their own body , as it is to form a sound .
designing a phrase with its own breath .
because the music instrument is the extension of our body .
our vocal chords to sing , our hands and feet to dance .
if you want to see the functions of this car , you can see it here .
so the hammer heads in the piano are the sequel of my fingers .
the melody comes from the healthy and the rhythm from the dance .
the continuous report today with music is not promoting .
you don &apos;t need to make music for yourself when you get bored .
no longer need to whistle or sing a song .
every single music is made up when you &apos;re constantly summed by music from the outside .
sure , there are some of you who say , yes , but what do you do if i can &apos;t sing ?
the question i ask , can &apos;t you sing , a , because you think you can &apos;t sing ?
or b , because they haven &apos;t learned to sing ?
it &apos;s not too late in both of them to see if they can &apos;t do it or learn how to use these little muscles that hire the vocal chords .
or other models , or even technical specifications .
because you can train that .
or c , because you &apos;ve been charged to them that they &apos;re intractable .
so i ask , how skillfully competent was this diagnosis ?
did you get a second or third opinion , as you say today , beautiful ?
or d , you don &apos;t like music , and therefore you want to have nix to do with it .
but what i would regret , because music is a beautiful , communicative thing .
but maybe you can still agree with them .
well , you can see , in all cases , no one has to be a peculiar candidate .
but don &apos;t say , i don &apos;t understand any of the classical music .
i can &apos;t say whether it &apos;s good or bad .
and this is really taking these ideas and creating these constraints for the available place on the screen .
i answer that , but i &apos;m sure you can tell if you like it or not .
because i don &apos;t think somebody says , i don &apos;t know if it tastes me , because i can &apos;t cook .
so , they don &apos;t get out of food , just because they can &apos;t cook .
so they don &apos;t have to give up on classical music , because they don &apos;t play an instrument .
listen consciously and say whether it tastes you or not .
whether or not the music is too sweet to you .
say what you feel .
over time , you get claims , and you want to have some more spices there , or even taste fine differences .
now , why do i challenge my audience that it &apos;s also actively listening ?
because the music is a language , and a language is there to communicate .
when each of you was born in this room , 6,000 languages were spoken on earth .
we hope that this is no longer a pop-ups and other nonsense -- it shouldn &apos;t be necessary .
an artwork you never look at has no force to work .
the food that &apos;s been cooked by a chef or a chef , needs to be eaten and not just looked at or dipped out recipes .
so please listen when a music is played .
it &apos;s not just a nice soundscape .
if in an environment where the adults make active music , or at least active music , a child grows up , it &apos;s very easy for a music teacher to ask , what color is your flower ?
can you play them in blue now ?
and the child plays , after a memorial break , instead of a red flower , now a blue flower .
and this sounds very different from before .
so that was the very first start of a musical expression .
so the first step to an interpretation .
of course , mapping is one of the really obvious applications for a technology like this .
and what happens when you play a piece today that was originally written a hundred , two hundred , or three hundred years ago ?
meanwhile , the instruments have been evolving .
there was bach as an instrument right now , no piano .
it just wasn &apos;t invented yet .
i think the stream would have been thrilled if he had the sounds of today &apos;s modern piano .
i can now make the noises that the stream has had on the modern wing , sound what a baroque cembalo can &apos;t do .
also , beethoven , you know , he heard more than he had already become deaf .
today , a modern orchestra is able to play everything that an orchestra rejected from that time as unplayable .
so the composers rely on us to interpret , to reinvent the pieces again .
so you can hear what you just thought of in the mind .
and i really don &apos;t want to spend a lot of time here , except to say that we &apos;re going to be contributing to this area .
and also what you would think of today in the mind .
or what i &apos;m thinking about today , because what you might have thought .
thank you .
do you know what &apos;s neither ?
have you ever been neither ?
and how did that feel ?
suck .
i have a friend who drives a passerati .
when i come , with my little v w piesel and i get it wrong , that feeling comes up .
i &apos;m shooting something through my head .
but these are all the streets in the u.s. .
i say , ulf , what do you need to do with a big car ?
that &apos;s what loses half the value in the first year .
and at all , you work much less than me .
why do i have to afford a little car like this ?
and then i come to mind immediately , that &apos;s unfair .
it &apos;s against justice .
and as i say the word &quot; justice , &quot; that unpleasant feeling is gone .
our organism has invented a great way to make such uncomfortable feelings as tend to disappear .
you can also try that with words like revenge or for-profit or something .
i want to explain something to you today with this mechanism , or to bring something that you &apos;re unconsciously familiar with .
overwhelmed at the top of the drilling image of nasa .
the mechanism comes from lying .
but don &apos;t think about the lie , as you may have heard , when people say , no one has the intention to build a wall .
and then stones are stones , so that he &apos;s going to give you the vision .
on a lie like this , you see that the liar itself doesn &apos;t believe what it says .
it &apos;s easy to check that it &apos;s very different in mind .
he &apos;s just deceiving you and not himself .
no , the lie that i &apos;m talking about has to do with the fact that they deceive themselves .
they need that lie to sustain a life lie to keep a self-deception .
they can make them less easy , yes , check , or get them to fall .
they need time .
now let &apos;s get something else out .
this time , an anecdote speaks that you might know .
the spanish painter pablo picasso once portrayed a woman .
this woman then complained that the portrait wouldn &apos;t look like her .
picasso answers , just wait .
they &apos;re getting more and more like that .
at this point , and when you laugh , you see how important this lie is and how much time it takes to learn something that artists can share very well with us .
because artists have a broken relationship with lying .
the artist shares something to them , and especially this lady , what she doesn &apos;t see when she just looks in the mirror .
the artist shares something to you in a portrait like this , which you &apos;re first familiar with when you look at this piece of art over and over again .
and then this unpleasant feeling disappears , and it wouldn &apos;t look like you , and it &apos;s getting more and more similar to you .
this is actually live on the internet . you can check it .
here you have this mechanism where we can use the lie as a great invention to stabilize our lives .
and not only in art , but also in the folk , in the mythology , in stories , it appears again .
you may know this idea of the lady who looked in the mirror every morning and asked him , who is the most beautiful thing in the entire country ?
one day , this mirror says , yes , there &apos;s a more beautiful one .
behind the seven mountains and so on .
and you also know how much hostility from this real outcome , even the mirror can &apos;t lie , jumps out of this real outcome .
but we should just be familiar with the fact that you can &apos;t tell a woman that there &apos;s a more beautiful one somewhere else .
here &apos;s what we need to understand under the politically correctness , over and over again .
we need these lies at this point that sustain us deception , without which we can &apos;t live .
we have not only in art , in the folk poetry , but also in science , such great lies .
this is a project called photosynth that really connects two different technologies together .
and there &apos;s this story of the woman of the bischof of worchester .
she heard about this book by charles darwin , the origin of the species and the origin of man .
that the human being should come from the monkey and , yes , there would be a common ancestor between humans and monkeys .
and then she ran up to her husband , and she said , that &apos;s probably not true what charles wrote .
the human being is supposed to come from the monkey or have a common ancestor .
no , no , it can &apos;t .
and if it &apos;s true , then we have to prevent people from knowing it .
why do we have to prevent people from knowing something when it &apos;s true ?
because we can &apos;t live without that lifespan .
because we have this self-deception , this feeling of being great , descending from the highest creatures , not from such a kind of natural level , of something as unpredictable as an organism that still exists , a stone comparable , and other things , that &apos;s unsustainable to us .
one is seadragon , and the other is a very good research on computer vision , which is from noah snavely , a university student at washington university , under steve seitz &apos;s consultancy at uw .
so , we can &apos;t do these things at all .
we need to prevent people from knowing things , especially when they &apos;re true .
so you can see how slowly this mechanism is resolving , and what the traces that it &apos;s leaving behind that lead to something different from this great image of ourselves , i want to give you another story .
a particularly beautiful story , i mean .
my wife told me .
she came one day from school , she &apos;s a teacher , and she told a student .
an autistic student .
she likes it in particular because he has a tendency for sincerity .
and she asked him , what are your hobbies ?
and he says , well , i &apos;m on the fire department .
and rick szeliski was done by microsoft research , a very good collaboration .
and because i &apos;m at the fire department , i &apos;m interested in pyrotechnical things .
yes , you feel it when you &apos;re hotter at this point . there &apos;s something wrong .
i told my wife , whenever a human being in a moral justification uses the word because , we should try to replace it with the word .
do that once , and then you get the sentence .
even though i &apos;m in the fire department , i &apos;m interested in pyrotechnical things .
you feel that &apos;s the real truth behind the exhibition .
this is a little bub that doesn &apos;t care about the fire .
they &apos;re interested in firemen .
but there are no clubs that we can look around for , where you learn how to make fire .
there &apos;s only the second best , the fire department .
now a language is not just the overall of the vocabulary or a series of grammar creatures .
so this is live on the internet . it &apos;s driven by seadragon .
he signed up .
and overwhelmingly , you don &apos;t tell your teacher that you like to put fires somewhere and be happy when the fire comes up afterwards .
no , it just looks much better when we show that we &apos;re involved in eliminating the dangers that others can do when they &apos;re just laying fire .
here you have this little mechanism .
this evidence of the fact that inside the bub , it already knew that it was actually related to the fire , but it can &apos;t say that loud .
here you have this censor between the unconscious and the conscious , who jumps on immediately , without the fact that you can do something about it , and the things that you know look very different , designed to sound much better for you and others .
so it just creates these words that we use over and over again in the language of political speech .
we actually know that something else is the case .
but we know , when we say that , the social relationships are very sensitive .
we can &apos;t just do that .
you can see that if we create these kinds of views where we can penetrate through images and make this experience of multiple resolution .
it &apos;s impossible to present things like this in a society that &apos;s supposed to work .
so i want to show you what we found in my institute .
what logic this deception , this self-deception , the willingness , a different reality than the one that we actually know in the unconscious sense that it &apos;s valid to spread outside .
i want to show you two , maybe three examples of this .
the first example assumes what many of you know and some of you appreciate , very few of you don &apos;t need at all .
i mean the soul .
what is the soul ?
the soul is such a spiritual thing , says something like leibniz .
it &apos;s something that &apos;s not staggering , material nature .
and if you have people who are persuasive that they have a soul , or you can also say , who believe that they have been brought from the soul to life , they think it &apos;s kind of like the soul is such a spiritual framework about them , not of matter , they &apos;re just flesh and blood , something stone , to the earth , forgettable , insignificant , unimportant , yes , dead .
but the spatial orientation of the images is actually important here .
and from this soul , you think that somehow in this cloudy nature , in this funny nature , anima , it &apos;s called in latin , the air force , is present .
and then , if that air force is poisoning over people , it &apos;s filled with dignity , with spirit , with nature that can only live , just with soul .
and then he can walk away .
that &apos;s the idea of how the soul works .
so it &apos;s supposed to come from the outside to the human .
so we &apos;re supposed to think of them as something that &apos;s supposed to be present to our lives .
and if you have this premise in front of your eyes , you understand the logic with which we experience this happiness of being able to improve our world through a lie .
because now you can apply a three-sentence .
three sentences you still know from school .
now this is a three-sentence here that describes a logic .
the computer vision algorithms have collected these images together so that they can take the real space , where these images that were all taken near the grassi lakes in the canadian rockies , and you can see elements of stabilized slides or panoramic imaging , and these things are all spatially related .
this is the hardest part of my talk , by the way .
here you need some logic , but also the willingness to lie .
that is to lie so that you can just apply this logic wrong .
in this three-sentence , there are three sentences .
the first sentence is , claim , there &apos;s no soul .
so the second sentence is , if sound is right , it doesn &apos;t have a soul .
now there &apos;s a third sentence .
i particularly highlighted it here .
a third sentence that appears immediately in people who have a strong sense of a soul .
they say who has no soul , who is dead , and can &apos;t say anything .
i don &apos;t know if i have time to show you other environments .
and here &apos;s where you feel it .
here &apos;s this logic coming out in this , yes , in this deceptive talk .
you see it immediately .
the first two sentences , they &apos;re logically correct .
because i can say anything .
the logic doesn &apos;t make any statements about reality .
i can say , the cancer is a man .
and if i &apos;m right , the chancer is a man .
if i &apos;m not right , the chancer is not a man .
the logic doesn &apos;t make a point about what &apos;s true .
there are those that are much more spatial .
i can say anything .
but the key thing is , if i &apos;m right , it &apos;s true .
so when sound says , there &apos;s no soul .
second , if he &apos;s right , he doesn &apos;t have a soul .
these things are logically correct .
and now our deceiving consciousness immediately feels like you can do something with it .
it depends on a third sentence that has nothing to do with the first two sentences , and pretends that the opposite of the first sentence is already proven and presented .
because in fact , we would have to prove whether or not there is the soul .
but with this logic that it just uses , that two sentences are logically correct , and a third one that looks like it has something to do with it , so we can save our lifespan .
so , we pretend it &apos;s actually impossible to live without a soul .
i &apos;d like to just show you one of the original data sets of noah , and this is from an early prototype of photosynth that we &apos;ve been working on for the first time in the summer to show you what i think is really the punchline behind this technology , the photosynthetic technology , and this is not necessarily so obvious if you look at the environments that we have on the website .
and we &apos;re very happy about it .
we can continue these things in different examples .
in the present , for example , we have a very modern example that keeps filling the daytime newspapers .
so , you have to take another philosophical issue , a permanent burner from philosophy , and keep it present .
that has to do with us going back to the fourth century .
there was a scholar called johannes buridanus , and after that , the buridanian esel named .
the buridanian esel is an esel made of pure nature .
it doesn &apos;t have that soul .
this is a natural thing .
and if you place the exact thing in the middle between two equal-size hairs , it hungs .
we had to worry about lawyers and so on .
because he doesn &apos;t know what haystack to go to first .
so it &apos;s right in the middle .
so the natural things are presented .
same big forces with counter-intuitive signs , they resolve each other .
there &apos;s nothing going on at all .
it &apos;s only when you get another example , so if it immediately makes a pile bigger , it doesn &apos;t need a reason and nothing .
automatically , he goes to the right thought .
so if you have this idea that you &apos;re kind of driven in nature , determined by the larger pile that immediately attracts you , then you also quickly feel that there must be something like a free will .
and if we &apos;re here in frankfurt , i remember the max planck institute for brain research .
there &apos;s a scholar , which is called wolf singer , and it &apos;s sometimes said , wolf singer , there &apos;s no freedom of willingness .
this is a reconstruction of the cathedame notre dame , who was only in the computer with images of flickr . just give notre dame in flickr , and they &apos;re going to get images of men in t-shirts and at the university site , and so on . each of these orange cakes represents a picture that was discovered as this model .
now we can make the second sentence , and we can say , if wolf singer is right , he has no freedom of willingness .
these sentences are absolutely logical and correct .
and what we can now read in the daytime newspaper almost every day , you find that in this third sentence .
it looks something like who doesn &apos;t have freedom of willingness can &apos;t be drawn for his actions and claims for responsibility , and so he &apos;s unpredictable .
again , here you have it again .
in fact , you have to prove that there is something like freedom of willingness .
but the logic of deception allows us to pretend that the first sentence of the first one is wrong , as if , of course , you have to take the opposite without proof .
and now you can just , if you want to do anything yourself , if you want to test anything yourself , and especially if you want to make people happy , practice that courage to lie .
practice this , for example , if you meet a human being that you can then say , there are no predictors .
and please don &apos;t use the german word for forecasters , which is prophet .
so these are all flickr images , and they &apos;re all in spatial ways related to each other .
you can &apos;t call that , that would be a little bit politically accurate again .
you say , there are no predictors .
immediately , they become one where , of course , there are these predictors , you can &apos;t prove that .
and they already have a problem .
because while they &apos;re busy making sense that they can &apos;t prove that there are no predictors , the man is very happy .
he &apos;s very happy about this because he deceived them .
because he led them to a stain that he doesn &apos;t stop himself .
because actually , this person is not interested in evidence at all .
he &apos;s just interested in keeping himself free from the need to prove that there are predictors .
so , in the kind of shifting of the burden of evidence , you experience the brilliance of the lie .
a language is expression of the human mind .
and we can navigate this very simple way .
and once again , if you have a chance to feel that three-sentence in other people , you do it , because you will make other people happy if you don &apos;t remind them of your self-lies in that way .
thank you for your attention .
yes , good afternoon .
i allowed myself to ask lilly if i could mention them .
she &apos;s one of the organizers here from this great event , and she asked me if i was going to give a talk here and give my idea .
i have to say , you got it , i had a hard time talking about my idea at the beginning .
and i might want to introduce my island project to you that i &apos;m trying to introduce you to .
but it &apos;s , of course , the sum of very , very many ideas .
i probably belong to you , the two nice girls are still there , i &apos;m probably part of the generation that &apos;s been ordered for this bad auko image , because i &apos;ve already started studying machine construction in karlsruh , technical college , today , i think , is kit .
and then it beat me to berlin in the middle of the &apos; 80s , because i wanted to do renewable energy , and it didn &apos;t give me carllage .
you know , i never believed i was going to end up working at microsoft .
there was leopoldshafen &apos;s nuclear research facility .
they were all called kfa , also the jewish kfa .
the names today are projectors .
because a good engineer either built great cars or nuclear power plants .
but that &apos;s kind of doofes like &quot; n solar pendulum , &quot; which is sort of a hundred watts out of the square meter , that was a toy .
and in berlin , there was a crazy collective of engineering .
i &apos;m grateful to the premium cola man that he rehabilitated the word again , because after the fall , you couldn &apos;t use the word anymore because everything on the left was bad .
however , in the &apos; 80s , it wasn &apos;t like that .
it was just that there was self-administered alternative operations , and one of them was sitting in crossberg in the countryside , where you suspect evil .
location of terrorism , but that was called the fuzzy tronics and made wind and solar energy , and i started in the middle of the &apos; 80s .
i &apos;m very grateful for the reception here .
and yes , a lot of what was said today , i &apos;m very touched by the fact that many , many beautiful expressions that i &apos;ve lived through .
i worked for 11 years in the collective , which was grassroots .
we were 20 people .
if one said no , the vetoprinzip was a little bit crumbling , and i &apos;ve been doubting for 10 years , i &apos;ve been struggling to see if i might really waste my great engineering college to a devastating thing , because all my father &apos;s colleagues have always been talking to him , you &apos;ve been throwing out the money to the window of your child .
it &apos;s looking at vulnerability .
and that was really , really bitter , and then you get into that kind of phase , and then you got into that picture where i was thinking , you know , after 10 years , a thousand d marrow was that still , basic , unemployment in the collective , of course , whether that &apos;s really the great thing .
and then i kept it up to six and a half , and then , along with friends , i became the co-founder of the company solon , who then became one of the largest cell manufacturers in the world .
a huge story of success , but again , we have the problem of a growing company , and then we have two thousand , a small group , decided that we &apos;re going to start again and go back and dedicate ourselves to the next issue of the future , and that is , i think , in my view , it &apos;s going to be crazy again , and that &apos;s going to start again with people saying , what &apos;s the gossip , that &apos;s not going on , we &apos;re talking about memory .
and i brought you a project that i want to introduce to you now .
and the title of the talk was , yes , how to get a hundred percent renewable .
i guess you can see that these are a lot of different kinds of cameras : everything is in the process , from the mobile phone camera to professional slrs , a pretty large number of them all being put together in this environment .
and we just started asking a relatively simple , crazy story , where could you use a memory to make sense today .
on this island , this is graciosa island on the azors .
yes , that &apos;s the data .
there are four and a half thousand people living there .
they have a renewable energy rate of 15 percent today .
and the question is , why don &apos;t they have any more ?
it just doesn &apos;t work technologically .
when they grow more wind force together , the system starts to fail .
i always tell the politicians , when they &apos;re in berlin adlershard , they &apos;re in our facility .
they always say , why ?
and if possible , i will find some of the strange ones .
we already have 20 percent in germany .
can &apos;t be a problem .
but it &apos;s not true , we have seven percent in europe , and our web is physically the european .
if we had 20 percent in europe , we would have the same problems that people have on this island .
the question was simple , calculated that was two-thousandth in 2006 , the first contacts started with the island , but just do the math .
how big would it be to be that kind of battery , so that you would have an island of 20 , 30 , 40 , 50 , maybe even 70 percent renewable .
and yes , i &apos;ll go one more slide .
the conventional system looks like this all over the world .
by the way , about a hundred gigawatts of electrical power are added on the same basis in the world .
that &apos;s equivalent to the performance of a hundred nuclear power plants , because it &apos;s very fast everywhere .
many of them are covered by faces and so on .
the energy hunger of the world that &apos;s happening is deleted with this one , because you don &apos;t need permission .
that &apos;s fast .
you put a box like this .
and then it usually looks like this .
in the course of three of the tiles , two are always waiting .
yes , that &apos;s what you see down there , that &apos;s the burden .
we also got very accurate data .
and the wind plant , or the solar plant , or whatever it is , is usually a back-up system , or a system that can only eat in small quantities here .
our goal was to just say , okay .
this is going to be back-up and the wind , and the sun is going to use the load so that they can map the larger fraction .
there are a series of photographs somewhere here -- here they are .
and if you want to go over 20 , 30 percent renewable energy , which is energy per year , not the power at the moment , you have to turn off this one .
that is , at the moment , you have to make sure that renewables can sort of take over the entire grid .
of course , you can only say that if you &apos;re manned in some way here .
no one has done that in the world .
this is in a small style , so you can also use your rasian in the car over a small change judge .
people always ask me , what are you doing research in adlershof ?
that &apos;s going on .
but if you want to put together several of these interjudices , and they &apos;re supposed to build a web , it &apos;s going to be very complicated .
and our goal was , we wanted to get to seventh to ninety-nine percent renewable , and then this rest , the last 10 , 20 percent renewable , which is going to be very , very expensive , and that &apos;s not going to work , that you &apos;re going to make that out of batteries .
this is definitely going to be an energy carrier , which then , hydrogen , methane , power to gas , you know , or sh , it &apos;s going to be .
this is actually a poster of notre dame , who was recorded properly .
you have to go to a season store , and winter summer , and not just tag night .
we just wanted to know what about a normal , stinky electrochemical battery .
how far do you get there ?
and then they did a whole bunch of simulations .
and they &apos;ve simulated wind and sun and the load , and they &apos;ve come to the conclusion , a very exciting conclusion , that if you look at the conventional system , it takes about 50 cents a kilowatt-hour , you get about 40 cents a kilowatt-hour .
these were the very first calculations six years ago .
and then we said , okay .
well , that &apos;s great , then we have a business model .
we &apos;re cheaper than the same system when the same price goes up five percent a year .
and then we started negotiating with the insulanders .
we can move from the poster to a physical view of this environment .
what would it have to be done ?
have negotiated with investors , i &apos;ve been looking for new social leaders .
we were only five people then to rebuild a society .
and here &apos;s the plot again .
the brown is , in a sense , the conventional system , the green is our system .
that our system also has a price increase , because we &apos;re doing 20 percent with this , and we &apos;re not going through a price increase in the other things .
and the power-utility , which meant the electricity company on the island , has meant that &apos;s what we love .
we also want to support , but we don &apos;t believe you can solve the technical problem .
and so we decided to build a hall in berlin , where we can sort of map the electrical ratios of the island on scale one to three very precisely .
that is , we &apos;ve been looking for the largest battery in the world .
the point here is that we can do things with the social environment . it &apos;s now collected data from all of them -- from the entire collective memory of what , visually , the earth looks like -- and everything is connected together .
here it is .
it comes naturally from asia , in which case it &apos;s from japan .
and the funny thing is , in the &apos; 70s , it was developed at bbc mannheim , today abb , and was then licensed to the japanese .
it &apos;s a very , very large battery , you can see .
it has a megawatt of performance , and it can do that for six hours , and that &apos;s the battery that we &apos;ve sort of gotten out simulating technology .
and then they set them up .
we also put one of these same aggregate at the same size as it is , put it in the hall , actually , to the full dynamic behavior of this network , so in the hall , it looks like this now , there &apos;s the back here , here &apos;s the big battery , here &apos;s all the judges that we &apos;re simulating the web .
over here , we &apos;re simulating the whole transmission guidance system , the kilometers of physics of cables , to sort of map the vibrational behavior on the web .
and here you can see the whole thing again .
we can also turn two hundred kilowatts of photovoltaics on the web .
and of course , we all share the same adaptation needs .
it &apos;s a means for which the soul of a particular culture can find access to the material world .
all these photos are connected , and there &apos;s something that &apos;s bigger than the sum of the parts .
here we see this again , again , here we see the diesel , again , all the single aggregate .
and what we &apos;ve done , since two thousand , the hall has been finished , until today , about two thousand 12 , about everything that was here between the single system of electronics , in software , we &apos;ve done .
so we &apos;re not a battery manufacturer , but we &apos;re defined as a company that &apos;s only between the battery and the subject of the web and everything in between .
you have to communicate to the battery , of course , you have to be able to communicate on the web , and it &apos;s very complicated .
the nice thing about this island is that you can basically do anything that can be done today with problems that we &apos;re going to get if we want to increase our share of renewables .
so this whole discussion , how are we going to move back and forth right now , energy turn , like this is going to go , on the island , we have , for example , five to 30 percent accurate energy , so we &apos;re tiring the wind and the sun .
natural light then offers smart-grid .
so smart-grid , a huge topic everywhere .
we can start to integrate electromobility on the island , ask for rubber , because you can manage the burden .
that means , if you &apos;re renewable at 70s , you &apos;re not going to be able to do that without memory .
you get a model that comes from all over the earth .
you can do it through the n smart-grid , you can do it by expanding the nets , yes , you should definitely do it , you can hear the percentage , but you will never be able to avoid memory completely .
and that &apos;s the message , just a little bit .
that &apos;s why a lot of people come and look at this , because you can see what problems you get .
when we turn off this one , you don &apos;t have this rotating mass that causes a certain amount of inertia on the web .
and our european network is basically just made out of loud rotating masses of large power plants , wherever the wave is all over europe .
we look into this web , we see the fifty hertz , and when it becomes ninety-four comma nine hertz , we start to make some valves , then we go back a little bit of a steam in , and then we come back up again .
that &apos;s the system .
and , of course , that &apos;s incredible amounts .
if you tear that down somewhere , it takes a while .
the spinning reserve has at least 10 seconds to keep the net stable .
think of this as the sequel of stephen lawlers &apos; work on virtual earth .
and in time , they can react to other things .
if you don &apos;t have that anymore , that rotating mass , you have to replace that with performance electronics and electrochemistry .
and we can turn this big battery out two milliseconds .
you can see that there are enormous speeds there .
and the message is , we have to give up to these rotating masses , if we &apos;re going to sort of 20 , 20 percent , 20 percent , 20 , 30 , 30 , 30 percent , and so on , if we want to do it at all .
then we have to degrade our must-run capacity on the web .
must-run is simply saying the power plant is running to keep the frequency .
yes , this is a huge debate at the moment , building the coal plant , because we don &apos;t have any , or gastorbines , because it &apos;s not possible .
and we &apos;re just trying to make sure that you can degrade the capacity , the must-run capacity , by putting electrochemical stores on the web .
and fortunately , there are a whole bunch of studies now .
and this is something that , through the complexity with which people use it , grows and its use for the user is getting bigger and bigger with the application .
and then , for that purpose , people always come and look at our test , which is sort of our insula test .
and yes , the discussion is always about the question of how far you can take a piece of future .
and many discussions that i &apos;ve had in the last six years have been similar to the discussion that i &apos;ve had in the last 30 years on photovoltaics .
you can &apos;t do it , you can &apos;t do it , you know , child toys , we &apos;ve calculated everything , never calculated .
we have 30 gigawatts of photovoltaics in germany today .
that &apos;s a role model .
and i just assume that in the next 30 years , we will have the same capacity for electrochemical stores around the world .
simple , that &apos;s how it &apos;s going to come .
there will be a whole bunch of resistance and arguments .
the nice thing is that i &apos;ve experienced , in the last two years , that the scientists are putting themselves on my side .
their own photos are signed with metadata that another person has entered .
we &apos;ve now gotten over 10 million funding projects , also to climb a 10-megawatt-battery on the german web .
this is going to happen next april .
so from that , you also realize that there &apos;s a change there , and just from that defense to yes , to the idea that a hundred percent renewable is true .
and if you have a hundred percent renewable , it &apos;s like an autarque system .
so far , in discussions , these insulanders , they make autark , they have their own little web , they have nothing to do with our connection and nothing to do .
the question is very simple , if you &apos;re completely independent of any fossil or uranium energy creators that are being drilled out anywhere in the world , you &apos;re an island .
and then you only use what &apos;s available to the sun and the wind where you live .
and that &apos;s kind of our vision of a reasonable energy supply , and i &apos;m also grateful to cradle-to-cradle that they said , use solar energy .
and that &apos;s what we do , and as far as we do , the talk of premium kola , is that you can be a collective again and use solar energy , here &apos;s a little bit of it together .
and all right , i just want to encourage you , in the sense that you can be quiet a little bit and have a vision .
if someone has made the effort and complained all these saints and shared who they are , then my photograph of the notre steam cathedral is suddenly enriched with all this data , and i can use it as a starting point to dive into this room , into these metaverses that use photos of other people , and make a kind of overwhelming model of social experience using other providers .
and you really have to stay pretty tough , but i think it &apos;s going on .
thank you .
when steve lopez , columnist los angeles times , one day went through the streets of los angeles , he heard a wonderful music .
she came from a man , an african-american , sympathic , rau , homeless , who played on a violin that had only two strings .
many of you will know the story , because from steves &apos;s article on it later became a book that was filmed again , with robert downey junior , when steve lopez and jamie foxx was a nathaniel anthony ayers , the double assistant , who was studying at the juilliard-conservatory , and whose promising career was traced early on by his paranoid schizophrenia .
nathaniel left juilliard , suffered a breakdown , and 30 years later , he lived as homeless on the streets of skid row in the center of los angeles .
i recommend all of you to read steves &apos;s book , or to look at the film , so that not only do you understand the wonderful connectedness that happened between these two men , but also how music helped make that connection , and how it was the instrument , when this word game is allowed to get the mithalf , nathaniel away from the street .
i met mr ayers in 2008 , two years ago , in the walt disney concert hall .
he &apos;d just heard a demo of beethoven &apos;s first and fourth symphony and came behind the stage to imagine myself .
he talked about yo-yo ma and hillary clinton in a very healthier and social note , and how the dodgers would never get into the baseball world series , and all of that because of the danish passage of the first violin in the last sentence of beethoven &apos;s fourth symphony .
and of course , by the way , all of these are the immense virtual models of every interesting part of the earth that have not only been preserved by overwhelming or satellite images and so on , but by collective memory .
we got to talk about music , and a few days later , i got an email that said nathaniel was interested in guitar education .
i have to mention that nathaniel rejected a medical treatment because he had already been treated with electroshocks and with thorazine and handcuffs , a trauma that followed him all his life .
as a consequence of this , he &apos;s particularly vulnerable to these schizophrenic phases , and they &apos;re sometimes so bad , and he disappears for days in the streets of skid row , always this horror and the torture source of his own mind .
and in the same way that a rice stage , nathaniel was when we started with our first lesson in the walt disney hall , and he had this irre flickers in his eyes , and he was completely lost .
he talked about invisible demons and smoke and how someone wanted to poison him in the sleep .
i was afraid , not because of it , but i was afraid that i could lose it , that it could sink into one of its states , and that i could destroy his relationship to the violin , if i started talking about pitches and arpeggios and other exciting forms of didactic guitar .
so i just started playing .
i played the first sentence by beethoven &apos;s violin concert .
and while i was playing , i noticed that in nathanian &apos;s eyes , a complete change was going on .
it was like he was standing under the influence of an invisible doctor , a chemical reaction whose catalyst was my game .
thank you .
nathaniels &apos;s manic anger turned into understanding , into a quiet curiosity and grace .
and like a miracle , he took his violin and started playing some of the clips of violin concerts after hearing , and then asked me to end up playing them : mendelsson , tschaikowski , sibelius .
we then started talking about music , from bach to beethoven , brahms , bruckner and all the other bs , from bartok to esa pecca salons .
and i realized that not only did he have an encyclopedic knowledge of music , but he also connected it to a close personal relationship .
he talked about her with a passion and an understanding that i otherwise know about only my colleagues in the philharmony of los angeles .
by playing music and talking about music , this paranoid , confused man who had just moved through the streets of los angeles , had become a loving , educated , trained musician in juilliard , trained musician .
music is medicine . music changes us .
for nathaniel , music means mental health .
because music allows him to transform his thoughts and delusions with his imagination and creativity into something real .
and so he escapes his agonizing states .
do i understand you right ? your software enables you to , at a certain point , within the next few years , all the images that are being used by somebody in the world , in principle , to connect with each other ?
i understood that this is exactly the nature of art .
that &apos;s why we make music : so that we can make something that &apos;s inside of us , deep inside , our feelings , through our artistic lens , through our creativity to reality .
and the reality of that expression reaches all of us , and moves , inspired and united us .
as nathaniel approached , the music brought him back to a community of friends .
the redeeming force of music brought him back to a family of musicians who understood him , who recognized his talent and eighted him .
and i &apos;ll keep playing with nathaniel , whether in the walt disney hall or skid row , because he reminds me of why i became a musician .
thank you .
bruno giussani : thank you very much . thank you .
robert gupta .
robert gupta : i want to play something that i &apos;ve stolen the cellist , unfortunately .
yes . it doesn &apos;t do anything but discovery .
i hope you &apos;ll forgive me .
so i knew a lot of fish in my life .
i just loved two .
this first one , this was more like a passionate monkey .
it was a beautiful fish , tasty , good consistency , sustainable , a bestseller on the menu .
what a fish .
even better , it was raised in aquaculture after the most supposedly high standards of sustainability .
so you could feel comfortable selling it .
i had a relationship with this beauty for several months .
one day , the head of the company called and asked if i could do an event about the sustainability of the farm .
every language is like an old-fashioned forest of the mind , a turning point , a thought , an ecosystem of spiritual possibilities .
if you want to , it creates hyperlinks between the images .
&quot; of course , &quot; i said .
here was a company that was trying to solve what this incredible problem was for our chefs . how do we keep fish on our menu ?
in the last 50 years , we &apos;ve fished the ocean as we &apos;ve beaten forests .
it &apos;s hard to overestimate the destruction .
90 percent of the big fish that we love , the tuna , the healing butte , the salmon , the swordfish , they &apos;ve collapsed .
there &apos;s almost nothing left .
so it &apos;s going to be comfortable or evil aquaculture , fisheries , a part of our future .
many arguments against it . fisheries are polluting the environment , most of them anyway , and they &apos;re inefficient , we take tuna . a big disadvantage .
he has a 15-to-one feeding rate .
that is , 15 pounds of wildfish are required to get a pound of sugar tuna .
and it does this because of the content in the images .
not very sustainable .
it doesn &apos;t taste very good .
so here was finally a company that was trying to do it right .
i wanted to support them .
the day before the event , i called the head of public work for the company .
let &apos;s call it don .
&quot; don , &quot; i said , &quot; just to get the facts right , you &apos;re famous for building so far out in the sea that you don &apos;t pollution the environment . &quot;
&quot; that &apos;s true , &quot; he said , &quot; we &apos;re so far out that the waste is distributed by our fish , not concentrated . &quot;
and then he added , &quot; we &apos;re basically a world of ourselves .
this food processing from 2.5 to one , &quot; he said .
and this is really exciting when you think about the abundance of the semantic information that many of these images have .
&quot; the best in the industry . &quot;
2.5 to one , great .
&quot; 2.5 to one ? what do you feed ? &quot;
&quot; sustainable proteins , &quot; he said .
&quot; great , &quot; i said . put it on .
and that night , i was lying in bed thinking , what the hell is a sustainable protein ?
so the next day , just before the event , don .
i said , &quot; don , what are sustainable proteins ? &quot;
he said he didn &apos;t know . he &apos;s going to ask .
now , i telephone with a couple of people in the company , and no one could give me a proper answer , until i finally telephone with the leading biologist .
like if you take a web search for images , where you put in sentences , and the text of the website contains a lot of information about what the image is .
let &apos;s call it don .
&quot; don , &quot; i said , &quot; what are sustainable proteins ? &quot;
well , he mentioned some algae and some fish meals , and then he said , chicken pellets .
i said , &quot; chicken pellets ? &quot;
he said , &quot; yes , feathers , skin , bone flour , rests , dried and processed to feed . &quot;
i said , &quot; how much percent of your food is chicken ? &quot;
in the presumption of maybe two percent .
&quot; well , that &apos;s about 30 percent , &quot; he said .
i said , &quot; don , what is sustainable to feed chicken to fish ? &quot;
there was a long break in the manual , and he said , &quot; there &apos;s just too much chicken in the world . &quot;
but what if the picture connects you to all your images ?
i loved this fish .
no , not because i &apos;m a self-righteous and good person .
that &apos;s actually me .
no , i actually loved this fish , because , i swear to god , who &apos;s smashed fish after this conversation for chicken .
this second fish , this is a different kind of love story .
it &apos;s the romantic way , the more you know your fish , the more you love the fish .
i first eaten him in a restaurant in southern spain .
a friend friend of mine had been talking about this fish for a long time .
it &apos;s kind of wired us .
he came up on the table with a bright , almost glowing white color .
then the volume of the semantic cross connection and the abundance that comes out of it is really enormous . it &apos;s a classic network effect .
the chef had cooked him .
hold on twice .
amazingly , he was still delicious .
who can make a fish taste so good after being cooked ?
i can &apos;t , but this guy can .
let &apos;s call it miguel . it &apos;s actually called miguel .
and no , he didn &apos;t cook the fish , and it &apos;s not a chef , at least the way you and i understand it .
he &apos;s a biologist at veta la palma .
this is a fish elevator in the southwestern corner of spain .
it &apos;s near the coin of the guadalquivir river .
blaise , that &apos;s really incredible . heartfelt congratulations .
until the 1980s , the farm was in the hands of argentina .
they grew meat cattle on what was basically wetlands .
they did that by irrigating the country .
they built this complicated series of channels , and they pushed water out of the country and out into the river .
well , they couldn &apos;t do that , not economically .
and ecologically , it was a disaster .
it killed about 90 percent of the birds , which is a lot of birds for this place .
and so in 1982 , a spanish company with environmental consciousness bought the country .
what did they do ?
they &apos;ve reversed the flow of water .
thank you very much .
they literally reversed the lever .
instead of pushing the water out , they used the channels to pull the water back in .
they flooded the channels .
they created a 11,000 hectares of fish -- bark , seafood , shrimp , aal -- and they completely reversed miguel and his company the ecological destruction .
the farm is incredible .
i mean , you &apos;ve never seen anything like that .
they &apos;re staring at the horizon , which is a million miles away , and all you see is cursed channels and these density , lush march .
i wasn &apos;t there long ago with miguel .
he &apos;s an incredible guy , three parts charles darwin and part of &quot; a crocodile to kiss . &quot;
okay ? we were there , and we were fighting through the wetlands and i &apos;m keuche and sweat , and we have mud up to my knees , and miguel is quietly holding a biology lecture .
i &apos;m going to tell you a couple of things from my book that , i hope , are in harmony with other things that you &apos;ve already heard , and i &apos;m going to try to make some connections , if you haven &apos;t noticed them .
here he &apos;s highlighting a rare glider .
now he mentioned the mineral needs of phytoplankton .
and here , he sees a pattern of bundles that reminds him of the tanzanian giraffe .
it turns out that miguel has spent most of his career in mikumi national park in africa .
i asked him how he became such a fish expert .
he said , &quot; fish ? i don &apos;t know anything about fish .
i &apos;m an expert in relationships . &quot;
and then he goes and falls into more just the rare birds and algae and strange water plants .
and don &apos;t get me wrong , that was really fascinating , you know , the biotic community unplugged , like that .
it &apos;s great , but i was in love .
i want to start with what i call official dogma .
and my head became weak about this cooked piece of delicious fish that i had the last night .
so i interrupted him . i said , &quot; miguel , how come your fish tastes so well ? &quot;
he pointed at the algae .
&quot; i know , boy , the algae , the phytoplankton , the relationships , that &apos;s incredible .
but what do your fish eat ?
what is the food processing ? &quot;
now , he continues to tell me that it &apos;s such a rich system that the fish eat what they would eat in the wild .
the plant biomass , phytoplankton , the zooplankton , that &apos;s what the fish feed .
the system is so healthy , it &apos;s completely self-sustaining .
there &apos;s no food .
and of those 6,000 languages today , as we sit here in monterey , half of them will not be whispered into the ears of children .
the official dogma of what ?
ever heard of a farm that doesn &apos;t feed their animals ?
later on the day , i was driving around on this site with miguel , and i asked him , i said , &quot; for a place that seems so natural , &quot; unlike any farm i &apos;ve ever been to , &quot; how do you measure success ? &quot;
at the moment , it was as if a film director had demanded a stage shift .
and we bent around the corner , and we had the most incredible look , thousands and thousands of pinker flamingos , a literally pink carpet as far as the eye is .
&quot; that &apos;s success , &quot; he said .
&quot; look at your tubes , pink .
they &apos;re bad . &quot;
bad ? i was completely confused .
i said , &quot; miguel , don &apos;t you take your fish ? &quot;
&quot; yes , &quot; he said .
the official belief of all western industrialized societies .
&quot; we lose 20 percent of our fish and fish eggs to the birds .
well , last year , on this site , 600,000 birds , were more than 250 different species .
it &apos;s become the biggest and one of the most important private bird reserves in all of europe today .
i said , &quot; miguel , is a well-thriving bird population not the last thing you want to have on a fish elevator ? &quot;
he shake his head , no .
he said , &quot; we &apos;re building extensively , not intensive .
this is an ecological network .
the flamingos eat the shrimp .
the shrimp eats the phytoplankton .
so the pink the belly is better at the system . &quot;
the official dogma works like this : if our goal is to maximize the public good of our citizens , it &apos;s mostly through the maximization of the freedom of the individual .
okay , let &apos;s rethink that . a farm that doesn &apos;t feed their animals and a farm that measures their success in the health of their predators .
a fish elevator , but also a bird reserve .
oh , and by the way , these flamingos shouldn &apos;t even be there in the first place .
they breed in a city 240 kilometers away , where the soil is better for the nest maintenance .
they fly 240 kilometers to the farm every morning .
and they fly back 240 kilometers every night .
they do it because they can follow a92 the strict white line of the highway .
seriously .
i had imagined a kind of journey of penguins , so i looked at miguel .
i said , &quot; miguel , do you fly 240 kilometers to the farm , and then you fly back 240 kilometers in the evening ?
the reason for this is that freedom within itself is good , valuable , meaningful , unpredictable for the human .
do you do that for the kids ? &quot;
he looked at me as if i had just quoted a song by whitney houston .
he said , &quot; no . you do it because the food is better . &quot;
i didn &apos;t mention the skin of my beloved fish that was delicious , and i don &apos;t like fish skin . i don &apos;t like it clean . i don &apos;t like it crunchy .
it &apos;s this biting , cooked flavor .
i almost never cook with it .
and yet , when i tried her in this restaurant in southern spain , she didn &apos;t sniff at all to fish skin .
it tasted sweet and pure as if you were to take a bite from the ocean .
i mentioned this to miguel , and he was nodding .
he said , &quot; the skin seems like a sponge .
when people have freedom , each of us is about ourselves to do the things that maximize our public good and no one has to decide for us .
it &apos;s the last defense before something gets into the body .
it has evolved over the course of evolution to look for unpurifices . &quot;
and then he said , &quot; but our water doesn &apos;t have any disputes . &quot;
okay . a farm that doesn &apos;t feed their fish , a farm that measures their success at the success of their predators .
and then i realized , when he says a farm that doesn &apos;t have any inpurity , it drives a tremendous amount of water , because the water that flows through this farm comes in from the river of guadalquivir .
it &apos;s a river that leads all the things that rivers now tend to lead with them , chemical pollutants , abundance of pests .
and when it &apos;s struggled through the system , and it &apos;s leaving the water clean than how it &apos;s come in .
the system is so healthy , it cleans the water .
so not just a farm that doesn &apos;t feed their animals , not just a farm that measures their success in the health of their predators , but a farm that is literally a water supply plant , and not just for these fish , but for you and me .
because when the water flows out , it goes down in the atlantic .
the way to maximize freedom is to maximize choice .
a drop in the ocean , i know , but i take it , and you should do that , because this love story , as romantically , is also enlightening .
you might say that it &apos;s a recipe for the future of good food , whether we &apos;re talking about bark or meat cattle .
what we need now is a radical new concept of agriculture , of one where food actually tastes good .
but for many people , it &apos;s a little bit too radical .
we &apos;re not realists , we &apos;re more enjoyable . we &apos;re lover .
we love weekly markets . we love small family businesses . we talk about local food . we eat bio .
and if you say that these are the things that are insuring the future of good food , somebody somewhere gets up and says , &quot; hey people , i love pinke flamingos , but how are you going to feed the world ?
how will you feed the world ? &quot;
can i be honest ?
i don &apos;t like that question .
the more choices people have , the more freedom they have , and the more freedom they have , the more public good they have .
no , not because we &apos;re producing enough calories to feed the world more than just .
a billion people are going to starve today .
one billion -- that &apos;s more than ever before -- because of crashing inequalities in distribution , not overall production .
now , i don &apos;t like this question because it &apos;s been the logic of our food system over the last 50 years .
feeding grain of herbivores , pests , monocultures , chemicals to the earth , chickens to fish , and all the time the agribusiness has just asked , &quot; if we feed more people cheaper , how terrible can it be ? &quot;
that was the reason . it was the justification . it was the business plan of american agriculture .
we should call it what it is , an advertising in decompiculture , a commercial that quickly detects ecological capital that enables this very production .
this is not a commercial , and it &apos;s not agriculture .
our corn chamber is threatened today , not because of the declining supply , but because of the degrading resources .
not by the latest mice and tractor inventions , but by fertile land , not by pumps , but by fresh water , not by chainsaws , but by forests , not by fishing boats and nets , but by fish in the sea .
this is , i think , so deeply anchored in our water supply that it would not be in any sense to question .
you want to feed the world ?
let &apos;s start with the question : how are we going to feed ourselves ?
or better , how can we create conditions that enable every community to feed themselves ?
to do that , don &apos;t look at the agricultural model for the future .
it &apos;s really old , and it &apos;s done .
capital , chemistry and machines are in the obenan , and it has never really produced a good thing to eat .
instead , let &apos;s look at the ecological model .
that &apos;s what goes back to two billion years of labor experience .
look at miguel , farmers like miguel .
businesses that are not worlds for themselves , businesses that are restoring instead of using them , businesses that are expanding extensively , rather than just intensive , farmers that are not just producers , but experts for relationships .
and it &apos;s also deeply rooted in our lives .
because they are the ones who are also experts for taste .
and if i &apos;m really honest , they &apos;re a better chef than i will ever be .
you know , that &apos;s right to me , because if that &apos;s the future of good food , it &apos;s going to be delicious .
thank you .
if i want to take you through one thing today , it &apos;s that the total data that we consume is greater than the sum of your parts , and instead of thinking about information overlapping , i want you to think about how we can use information so that patterns are emerging , and we see trends that would otherwise not have become visible .
so what we &apos;re seeing here is a typical dying diagram of age .
the program i use here is a little experiment .
it &apos;s called pivot , and what i can do with pivot is i can filter after a certain cause of death , let &apos;s say accidents .
and immediately , i see another pattern that comes out .
and that &apos;s because in the middle area here , people are most active , and they &apos;re most responsible over here .
i &apos;m going to give you some examples of what makes modern progress possible .
we can go one step further and then rearrange the data and see that circular disease and cancer are the usual suspects , but not for everyone .
now , when we go on and we go to age , we say 40 years or younger , we see that accidents are actually the main thing that people should worry about .
and who &apos;s continuing to see that this is particularly true with men .
so you can see that looking at information and data in this way reminds very much of swimming in a living information graph .
and if we can do this for raw data , why not for content itself ?
so what we have here is the cover images of every single sports illustrated that have ever been printed .
it &apos;s all here . it &apos;s all online .
you can like to test it after my talk in your rooms .
with pivot , you can dive into a decade .
they can dive into a particular year .
they &apos;re no longer taught kids . that is , if nothing is done , they &apos;re actually dead .
this is my supermarket . no big one .
you can jump directly to a particular issue .
now , when i look here , i see the athletes that appear in this issue and the sports species .
i &apos;m a lance armstrong fan , so i click on what i &apos;m talking about all the spending in which lance armstrong is mentioned .
now , if i just want to get a bigger overview , i could think , &quot; ok , what if i look at everything about biking ? &quot;
so i &apos;m going to step back and i &apos;m going to take the perspective .
now i see greg lemond .
and so you get an idea that if you go through this kind of information , target , broader , zoom in , zoom out , you don &apos;t just look for or surf .
you do something that &apos;s actually a little different .
it &apos;s something in between , and we think it changes the way information can be used .
now i want to take this idea a little bit further with something a little crazy .
i just want to say a little bit about salatdressing .
what we &apos;ve done here is we &apos;ve taken every single wikipediase and we &apos;ve reduced it to a small summary .
the summary contains a short overview and a symbol for the area that it comes from .
i &apos;m just showing the top 500 of the most popular wikipediasites .
but even in this limited view , we can do a lot of things .
immediately , we get a sense of the topics that are most popular on wikipedia .
i &apos;m going to choose the issue of government .
now , after i &apos;ve chosen government , i realize that the wiki pediakatories that are most covering time magazine &quot; people of the year . &quot;
this is really important because this is a realization that is not in a single wikipediaset .
that &apos;s just to recognize when you step back and look at the whole thing .
so , looking at one of these summaries , i can go into the subject of time magazine , &quot; people of the year , &quot; and all look together .
there are 175 dressings in my supermarket , if you don &apos;t count the 10 different extra olive oil and 12 balsamico-essions that you could buy to make a large number of their own salad dessings , in the improbable case that none of the 175 in the store is right for you .
now , when i look at all these people , i realize that the majority of them are government officials , some of them come from science , some , some , less , come from the economy . here &apos;s my boss , and one comes from the music area .
and interestingly , bono is also a ted prize winner .
so we can jump and take a look at all the ted prize winners .
you see , we &apos;re surfing on the web for the first time as if it &apos;s really a web , not just side to side , but much more abstract .
and so i want to show you something else that could be a little surprise .
i &apos;m just showing you the new york times website here .
pivot , this application -- i don &apos;t want to call it a browser ; it &apos;s really not a browser , but you can look at websites -- and we bring this zoom-technology to every single website like this .
so i can take a step back and jump directly to a specific section .
and that &apos;s important because you can only look at web pages in this way , the whole internet course in the same way .
so i can zoom in on my trajectory in a certain time frame .
so this is what the supermarket is like .
here &apos;s the state of the entire demonstration that i &apos;ve been holding to this .
and i can sort of recover everything i &apos;ve looked at today .
and if i take a step out and look at everything , i can rearrange my trajectory perhaps by my search past . here , i &apos;ve been looking for &apos; nepotistic , &apos; here for bing , or for live labs .
and from here , i can go in and call them up again .
it &apos;s a metaphor that &apos;s used over and over again , and every time it makes the whole picture bigger than the sum of the data .
right now , in this world , we think data is a curse .
we &apos;re talking about the curse of information abundance .
we talk about drowning in information .
what if we could turn this situation around and turn the internet on its head , so that instead of always going from one to the other , we can start to go from many things to many things , and see patterns that would have otherwise been hidden ?
if we can do that , then this data trap , maybe a new source of meaningful information .
and then they go to the consumer electronics business to put together a stereo , loudspeaker , cd player , a cassette player , radio , amplifier , and in this one electronics business , there are so many stereo facilities .
and , instead of just moving into information , we can get knowledge of it .
and if we know , maybe we can even draw wisdom out of it .
i &apos;ll stop with that , thank you very much .
i grew up with a heard portion of science fiction .
in my school time , i drove to school with a bus , an hour per day .
and my nose was always in a book , a science fiction book that led my thoughts into other worlds , and in a narrative way , my deep , sitting in me , satisfied insatiable curiosity .
this curiosity also turned out to be that whenever i wasn &apos;t in school , i would go through the forests and go and collect samples , frogs and snakes and beetles and ponds , and i would bring it home and look at it under the microscope .
i was so excited about science , you know .
it was always about trying to understand the world and to explore the limits of the possible .
and my love of science fiction seemed to reflect in my environment , because then , in the late &apos; 60s , we flew to the moon and explored the deep sea .
we can put 6.5 million different stereo plants together from the components that are offered in this one business .
jacques cousteau came into our living rooms with his fascinating shows that showed us animals and places and a world full of miracles that we could never have imagined before .
and that &apos;s probably very well adapted to that science fiction role .
and i was an artist .
i could draw . i could paint .
and since there was neither video games nor that over-saturation with computer-generated movies nor the whole imagery in the media landscape , i had to create the images in my head .
we all had to do that at the time . when we read a book as kids , we took the description of the author , and we projected it on the canvas in our heads .
my response was to draw and paint alien worlds , alien worlds , robots , spacecraft and all that .
in math education , i was constantly caught by the teacher , as i was , hiding in the back of the textbook .
creativity had to come out in some way .
and something interesting happened , because what fascinated me about jacques cousteaus &apos;s shows was the idea of a completely unknown world here on earth itself .
you have to admit that this is a big selection .
i certainly would never get to an alien world with a spaceship , which seemed to me quite unlikely .
but here was a world that i could actually enter , here on earth , and it was just as fascinating and exotic as all the things i had always imagined when i read these books .
so when i was 15 , i decided to be a diver .
the only problem with this was that i lived in a small village in canada , 1,000 miles from the nearest ocean .
but i didn &apos;t let myself discourage that .
i annoyed my father until he finally found a diving school in buffalo , new york , right on the other side of the border , where we lived .
i made my dive in a pool of the ymca in the middle of the winter in buffalo , new york .
but the ocean , a real ocean , i only got to see two years later when we moved to california .
since , in the 40 years that have been disrupted , i &apos;ve spent about 3,000 hours underwater , 500 hours of it in submersibles .
and i &apos;ve learned that the world of the deep sea , even in the flat oceans , is as rich as we can &apos;t imagine .
in other areas -- the world of communication .
the imagination of nature doesn &apos;t know boundaries , as opposed to our own , noisy human imagination .
until today , i feel the deepest awe for what i see on my dives .
and my love of the ocean lasts with the same intensity as eh and ever .
so when i was a professional adult , it was a filmmaking .
that seemed the best way to tell my inner drive to tell stories , with my need to create images , to unite .
as a child , i was constantly drawing comic books and so on .
so movies were the way to bring together images and stories , and that fit together .
of course , the stories that i chose were from the science-fiction area : &quot; terminator , &quot; aliens , &quot; and &quot; abyss . &quot;
at &quot; abyss , &quot; i was able to connect my preferences for the underwater world and diving with the filmmaking .
so my two passions sort of flew .
there was a time when i was a boy , you could have every telephone provider you wanted , as long as he came from ma bell .
something interesting happened in &quot; abyss &quot; : to solve a narrative problem in this film -- and that is , we had to create a kind of liquid water creature -- we went back to computer-generated animation , cg , cg .
and what came out was the first computer-generated software surfing figure to ever see in a movie .
now , the film didn &apos;t bring in any money , and he was just playing his production costs , but i noticed something fascinating : the audience around the world was like hypnotized by the magic that went off .
according to arthur clarke &apos;s law , famously , advanced technology and magic are no longer different from each other .
so they saw something magical .
and that was really exciting to me .
and i thought to myself , &quot; wow , it &apos;s got to be involved in film art . &quot;
so we went to &quot; terminator 2 , &quot; my next movie , much further .
together with ilm , we created the liquid metal guy there , and the success depended entirely on how this effect would arrive .
and it worked . again , we had created something magical , and the effect in the audience was the same , but we &apos;ve played a little bit more money with the movie .
you rented your phone . you didn &apos;t buy it .
of those two experiences , a whole new world has been achieved , a whole new world of creativity for filmmakers .
so i started a company with my good friend stan winston , who was the best makeup and creature-designer at the time , called the digital domain .
the basic idea of this company was to skip the phase of analog processes with optical printers , etc . , and start to do digital productions .
so that &apos;s what we did , and we made a competitive advantage for a while .
but in the mid- &apos; 90s , we realized that in the creature- and the design -- what we actually founded the company -- we were getting too slow .
i had written this piece , &quot; avatar , &quot; that the measurement pole should be pushed into visual effects and computer generators in a whole new height , with realistic human , expressive characters that had been made using cg , and the main figures should be all cg . and the world should be cg .
but the measurement pole was really pushing back , and people in my company told me that we &apos;re not yet able to do that .
so i shifted this , and i made this other movie about the big ship that goes down .
i sold this as &quot; romeo and juliet on a ship , &quot; and it became a love film of epic extent , a passionate movie .
but in secret , i actually wanted to dive down to the real wreck of the titanic .
what could be more lonely than being surrounded by silence , being one of the last of your people who speak your language , not having a chance to pass on the wisdom of the ancestors , or the hope of expecting children ?
a consequence of that was that the phone was never broken .
that &apos;s why i made the film .
that &apos;s the truth . the studio didn &apos;t know that .
but i convinced them by saying , &quot; we &apos;re going to dive to the wreck . we &apos;re going to film the real wreck .
we &apos;re going to show it in the opening sequence of the film .
that &apos;s incredibly important . it &apos;s a good follower for marketing . &quot;
and i convinced them to fund an expedition .
sounds crazy . but that comes back to the fact that your imagination can create a reality .
we actually created a reality six months later , where i found myself in a russian submersible , four kilometers below the surface of the north atlantic , looking at the real titanic through a bulleye .
this was not a movie , no hd , this was real .
so , that really blew my mind .
these days are over .
and the preparation was enormous . we had to build cameras and headlights and all kinds of things .
and i noticed how much of these deep sea dials , a space mission .
well , they were also high-tech and enabled extensive planning .
you get into this capsule , and then you float down into this dark , hostile environment , where there is no hope for rescue , if you can &apos;t do it yourself .
and i thought , &quot; wow , that &apos;s the same as if i was in a science fiction movie .
that &apos;s really cool . &quot;
i was actually obsessed with exploring the deep sea .
anyway , from the part that has to do with curiosity and science , it was everything . it was adventure , it was curiosity . it was imagination .
and it was an experience that hollywood couldn &apos;t give me .
because , you know , i could imagine a creature that we could then design a visual effect for , but i couldn &apos;t imagine what i would see outside the window .
we now have almost an infinite selection of telephones , especially in the mobile phone world .
in some of the following expeditions , i &apos;d seen creatures in thermal sources , and sometimes things that i &apos;d never seen before , sometimes things that nobody had ever seen before , and for which science , when we saw it , had not found words at all .
so that really blew me up , and i wanted more .
and so i made a little bit of an unusual decision .
after the success of titanic , i said , &quot; okay , i want to put my main job as a filmmaker in hollywood on ice , and i &apos;m going to be full-time researcher for a while . &quot;
and then we started diving to &quot; bismarck , &quot; and we explored them with robotic experiences .
we returned to the wreck of the titanic .
we took little robots that we built that wrapped a fiberglass cable .
our intention was to dive in and look at the inside of the ship , which had never been done before .
no one had ever explored the inside of the wreck . you didn &apos;t have any means to do it . so we developed the technology that we needed .
now , i &apos;m sitting on the deck of the titanic , in a dive boat , and i &apos;m planning to plan , which is a little bit like this , and i know that once the band was playing there .
these are the mobile phones of the future .
and i fly with a little robotic experience through the halls of the ship .
i &apos;m actually just praying it , but my consciousness is within the vehicle .
it felt like i was physically within the shipping wreck of the titanic .
this was the most surreal form of a déj.j. vu that i &apos;ve ever experienced , because before i bow around a corner , i always knew what would be going on in the light cone of the vehicle , because i &apos;d run over the movie for months , when we made the movie .
because the set was an accurate copy of the blueprints of the ship .
so that was a very strange experience .
she made me realize this telepresence experience that you use such robotic avatars and so your consciousness can be put into the vehicle , into this different form of existence .
it was really , really profound .
and maybe a little bit of a glimpse of what might happen in a few decades , if you have cyborg bodies to explore , or to do other things , in all sorts of post-humane futures that i can think of as a science fiction fan .
after these expeditions , we started to really appreciate what we had seen down there , like these deep sea waves , where we saw these incredibly amazing animals , and these are sort of aliens , but here on earth .
my favorite is in the middle -- mp3 players , nase-hairs trimmer and crème brée fackel .
they live with chemosynthesis .
they don &apos;t exist in a solar light system , as we do .
and so you see animals that are right next to 500 degrees celsius that they can survive there .
at the same time , i was also very interested in space science , which was the science fiction effect of my childhood .
and so i ended up with the people who are interested in space , and who are dealing with nasa , and they &apos;re sitting in the nasa expertise council , and they &apos;re planning real space missions , and they &apos;re going to russia , and they &apos;re going through the mission , and they &apos;re going through the biomedical protocol , and they &apos;re going to go to the international space station , and they &apos;re going to take our 3d camera systems .
that was fascinating .
but at the end of it , i took space scientists to the deep sea with us .
i took them , and i ambassador them to access the world down there : astrobiologists , planetary scientists , people who were interested in these extreme situations , and i took them to the sources so they could look around , sample and test instruments and so on .
we did documentary films , but we actually did science , in fact : space science .
so the circle between my existence was a science fiction fan , at the time as a child , and the implementation into reality .
and if you haven &apos;t seen that in your business , you can be sure you &apos;re going to be there .
in the course of this journey of discovery , i learned a lot .
i &apos;ve learned a lot about science , but i certainly think that a director has to be able to lead , be a leader like a ship captain or something .
but i didn &apos;t understand a lot of leadership before i entered these expeditions .
because at a certain point , i had to say , &quot; what do i do here ?
why do i do that ? what &apos;s going on ? &quot;
these stupid movies don &apos;t bring us any money .
we &apos;re going to play the cost of production . no trace .
everybody thinks i was between &quot; titanic &quot; and &quot; avatar &quot; and i would have been celebrating the nails on a towel on the beach somewhere .
i made all these films , these documentaries , for a very small audience .
no glory , no honor , no money . what are you doing ?
and what it does is it makes people walk into business and ask that question .
you do it for the task , for the challenge -- and the ocean is the most challenging environment there is . you do it for the discovery space , and because of the strange connection that comes from when a small group of people form a team .
because we did all this with just 10 to 12 people who worked uninterrupted for years , sometimes we were in the back of the lake two to three months .
and in this community , you realize that the most important thing is the kind of attention that you have in front of each other , because you &apos;ve done a task that you can &apos;t explain to any other .
when you go back to land and you say , &quot; we had to do it , the fiberglass , the sound weakness , and all the way around it , all the technology , and the difficulty , the human ability , if you work at sea , &quot; you can &apos;t just explain the other person , and that &apos;s like policemen or soldiers who have done something in common and know that they can never explain it .
there is a connection , a reciprocal respect .
so when i came back to make my next film , &quot; avatar , &quot; i tried to apply the same leadership , which is that you respect your team and you deserve yourself in the opposite respect of it .
it really changed the dynamics .
so i stood back with a small team on unknown terrain , and we turned &quot; avatar &quot; with a new technology that didn &apos;t exist before .
incredibly exciting .
a tremendous challenge .
now , you know what the answer to this question is ?
and we became a real family for a four-and-a-half year period .
so my way of making films completely changed .
there were people who thought we &apos;d really taken these oceans and transported them on the planet pandora .
for me , it was more of a fundamental way of doing my job , the actual process that changed in the outcome .
so what can we conclude from all this ?
what are the lessons that we learned ?
i think the first thing is the curiosity .
it &apos;s the most powerful human property .
our imagination is a force that can actually create a reality .
and the idea of your team is more important than any lorberry in the world .
the answer is no .
to me , i have young filmmakers who say , &quot; give me a advice about how to do this . &quot;
and i say , &quot; don &apos;t limit yourself .
that &apos;s what other people get for you . don &apos;t do it to you , don &apos;t bet against yourself , but take risks for you . &quot;
nasa has such a favorite sentence : &quot; failure is not an alternative . &quot;
but in art and exploring , failure has to be an alternative , because that &apos;s where it guarantees a trust leap .
no important endeavor , which demanded innovation , has ever been accepted without risk .
you have to be willing to take those risks .
that &apos;s the idea that i &apos;d like to leave you with . failure is an alternative , but fear is not . thank you .
today , i &apos;m talking to you about energy and climate .
and this may be surprising , because my full-time work at the foundation is mostly about vaccines and seeds to make the things that we need to invent and deliver to make the poorest two billion a better life .
it &apos;s not possible to buy a mobile phone that doesn &apos;t do too much .
but energy and climate are extremely important for these people , in fact , more important than anyone on the planet .
climate degradation means that their seeds are not going to grow for many years ; it &apos;s going to rain too much or too little ; things are going to change as it can &apos;t sustain their fragile environment .
this leads to famine . it leads to uncertainty . it leads to unrest .
so , a change in climate change is going to be terrible for you .
and also , the energy cycle for them is very important .
in fact , if you could only reduce the price from one thing , to the poverty reduction , energy would be far more effective .
well , the energy cycle has fallen over time .
in fact , the progress society is based on energy advances .
coal evolution pushed the industrial revolution , and even in the 20th century , there was a rapid case in the electricity cycle , and so we have refrigerators , air conditioning , we can make modern materials and do so many things .
so we &apos;re in a wonderful situation with electricity in the rich world .
and yet , this terrible destiny actually happens to someone anywhere on earth , about every two weeks , because every two weeks , an elderly man dies and takes the last syllabus of an old language to the grave .
in other aspects of life that are much more important than buying objects , the same explosion of choice is true .
but if we reduce the price -- let &apos;s cut the price in half -- we hit a new barrier , and that barrier is related to co2 .
co2 warms the planet , and the co2 equation is actually pretty clear .
they consume the out-of-the-box co2 , which leads to temperature increases , and that temperature elevation has some very negative implications . effects on the weather , and perhaps worse , the indirect implication that the natural ecosystems can &apos;t adapt to such rapid changes and fall together whole systems .
now , the exact correlation between a co2 rise and the result of temperature change , and where the other implications are , there are some ambiguity , but not very many .
and there &apos;s certainly ambiguity about how bad these consequences are going to be , but they &apos;re going to be extremely bad .
i asked the top scientists several times , &quot; do we really have to get down to zero ?
isn &apos;t half or a quarter ? &quot;
the answer is , until we get close to zero , the temperature will continue to rise .
so it &apos;s a big challenge .
it &apos;s very different from saying , we have a 3.5 meter high truck that has to make under a 30-foot bridge , and then you can kind of squeeze it underneath .
health care -- it &apos;s no longer the case in the united states that you go to the doctor , and the doctor tells you what to do .
this has to go down here , to zero .
well , we &apos;re emitting a lot of carbon dioxide every year , over 26 billion tons .
every american is about 20 tons . people from poor countries , less than one .
on average , it &apos;s about five tons for everyone on the planet .
and somehow we have to create changes that are going to reduce that to zero .
it has gone up constant .
only different economic changes have it even influenced , and we have to go from rapidly rising to rising to zero .
this equation has four factors . a little bit of multiplication . you have this thing on the left -- co2 -- that you want to get to zero , and that will depend on the number of people , on the service that every human being uses on average , the average energy for every service and the co2 that &apos;s emitted per unit of energy .
so let &apos;s look at each factor and think about how we get this to zero .
probably one of these numbers has to get very close to zero .
instead , you go to the doctor , and the doctor tells you , we could make a , or we could make b .
now this is basic algebra , but let &apos;s go through it .
first , we have the population .
today , 6.8 billion people live .
and it &apos;s going to go to nine billion . it &apos;s going to move to nine billion .
if we &apos;re very successful with new vaccines , health care and reproduction medicine , we might be able to reduce that by 10 to 15 percent , but right now we see a slope by 1.3 .
the second factor is the services we use .
that includes everything , the food we eat , clothing , tv , heating .
these are very good things and poverty reduction means making these services available to almost everyone on the planet .
it &apos;s great that this number is going up .
in the rich world , in the upper billion , we might be able to dispute and use less , but on average , that number is going to increase every year , and more than doubling , the number of services that are being provided per person .
a has these benefits and risks .
here &apos;s a very fundamental service . is there light at home so you can read the homework ?
and these students don &apos;t have it , so they go out and read their school assignments under the street .
well , in efficiency , the e , the energy per service , there &apos;s good news .
we have something that doesn &apos;t go up .
because of different successes in the light sector , through other autotypes , through new methods in domestic building , there are a lot of services whose energy effort some of the services are reduced by 90 percent .
in other services , like fertilizer production , 105 : 05 : 56,000 -- designed ; 00 : 58,000 : 58,000 , or air traffic , or air travel , the playground for improvement is much smaller .
in total , if we &apos;re optimistic , we might get a reduction by a factor three , or maybe even by a factor six .
but in the first three factors , we &apos;ve gone from 26 billion to maybe the best 13 billion tons , and that &apos;s just not enough !
so let &apos;s look at the fourth factor -- and this will be a key factor -- that &apos;s the amount of co2 that &apos;s emitted per unit of energy .
it raises the question of whether you can get that to zero .
b has these benefits and risks . what do you want to do ?
if you burn coal , no .
if you burn natural gas , no .
almost every manufacturing method for electricity now emitts co2 , except for renewables and nuclear energy .
so what we need to do at a global level is to create a new system .
we need energy miracles .
now , when i use the term &quot; miracle , &quot; i don &apos;t mean the impossible .
the microprocessor is a miracle . the pc is a miracle .
the internet and its service is a miracle .
people here have contributed to the development of many of these miracles .
usually there &apos;s no deadline that you need a miracle to a particular date .
and they say , &quot; doctor , what should i do ? &quot;
you &apos;re usually just wrong , and some of them come , some of them don &apos;t .
but in this case , we have to give full gas and get a miracle in a very short time .
now , i wondered , how can i really get this over ?
is there a natural illustration , a demonstration that sparks people &apos;s idea here ?
i remembered last year when i brought mosquitos , and somehow people liked that .
the idea became really tangible for them , you know , there are people who live with mosquitos .
for energy , this is what i came up with .
i decided that releasing fireflies would be my year &apos;s contribution to the environment here .
so here are some natural fireflies .
i was told they didn &apos;t bite . in fact , they &apos;re not even going to leave the glass .
the doctor says , a has these benefits and risks and b has those benefits and risks .
well , there are all kinds of playful solutions like this , but they don &apos;t do much .
we need solutions , either one or more , that have an incredible scaling and unimaginable reliability , and even though there are many directions that people are looking for , i really only see five that can afford these big demands .
i left out tides , geothermal , fusion and biofuels .
these may be a modern contribution , and if they do better than i expect , that would be great , but my core statement here is that we have to work on all those five , and we can &apos;t give up any of them because they give us shy ones , because they all have significant problems .
let &apos;s first look at burning fossil fuels , burning either coal or natural gas .
what you have to do there may just seem simple , but it &apos;s not . you have to capture all the co2 that comes out of the chimneystone after you burn , under pressure , and then store it somewhere and hope it &apos;s there .
there are some pilot projects that can do this at a 60 percent -- 80 percent level , but it &apos;s going to be very difficult to get to 100 percent , and to get an agreement on co2 , is a big challenge , but the biggest problem here is the storage question .
who &apos;s going to make it safe ?
who can guarantee something , which literally many billions of times bigger than any kind of garbage you can think of from nuclear and other things ?
that &apos;s a lot of volume .
what do you want to do ?
so this is a tough nut .
next , nuclear energy .
it also has three big problems . the cost , especially in high-regulated countries , is high , and the question is , surely , that you really feel that nothing can go wrong , despite the human participation , that the fuel is not being used for weapons .
and then what do you do with the waste ?
because even though it &apos;s not very large , there are a lot of concerns .
so three very difficult problems that might be soluble , and so you should work on .
i &apos;ve summarized the last three of the five .
it &apos;s renewables , as they &apos;re often called .
and they also have -- although it &apos;s great that they don &apos;t need a fuel -- they have some disadvantages .
one is the energy density that these technologies create is dramatically lower than the power plants .
and if you said , &quot; if you were me , doctor , what would you do ? &quot;
these are energy farms , you talk about many square kilometers , a thousand times more land than a normal power plant .
and also , these sources are interruptions .
the sun doesn &apos;t shine all day , it doesn &apos;t seem to be every day , and it doesn &apos;t seem to be constantly blowing the wind .
so , if you &apos;re dependent on these sources , you have to have a way to get the energy even if it &apos;s not available .
so there are big prices here . there are challenges in transmission . if we say , for example , that the energy source is outside the country , you don &apos;t just need the technology , you also need to deal with the risk of where the energy is coming from .
and there &apos;s the problem of storage .
and to show you the dimension , i &apos;ve looked at all sorts of batteries that are made , which are for cars , computers , cell phones , flashlights , for everything , and i &apos;ve compared that to the amount of electronic energy that the world uses , and i &apos;ve found that all the batteries that we &apos;re producing now can store less than 10 minutes of total energy .
so we need a big breakthrough here , something that will be about a factor of 100 better than the approaches at the moment .
it &apos;s not impossible , but it &apos;s not that easy .
this is what happens when you try to get these broken sources about 20 percent -- 30 percent of the use .
the doctor says , &quot; but i &apos;m not you . &quot;
if you want to support it by 100 percent , you need an incredible wonderful battery .
now , where should we go : what &apos;s the right approach ?
a manhattan project ? how do we get there ?
what we need is a lot of companies working on this . hundreds .
in each of these five areas , we need at least 100 people .
in many , you &apos;ll say , they &apos;re crazy ! that &apos;s good .
i think there are many people here in the ted group who are already engaged in this .
bill gross has several companies , including one called esolar , which has great solar thermal technologies .
vinod khosla is investing in dozens of companies doing great things and having interesting opportunities , and i &apos;m trying to support that .
nathan myhrvold and i are funding a company that , perhaps surprisingly , follows the nuclear approach .
and i know some of you say , &quot; isn &apos;t it better ? &quot; wouldn &apos;t the world be a better place if we all were talking only one language ? &quot; and i say , &quot; well , let &apos;s be yoruba . let it be canadian .
the result is -- we call it &quot; patient autonomy . &quot; that sounds like a good thing , but in reality , a shift in the burden of responsibility for making decisions from someone who knows something -- namely the doctor -- to someone who doesn &apos;t know anything and is most likely sick , and therefore , not in the best constitution is to make a decision -- namely the patient .
there are some innovations in the nuclear area ; modular , liquid .
the development stopped in this industry a while ago , so it &apos;s not a big surprise that some good concepts are around .
the terrapower-concept means that instead of a part of the uranium , the one percent , the u235 , we decided to burn the 99 percent , the u238 .
this is a pretty crazy idea .
but in fact , you &apos;d been thinking about it for a long time , but you could never be reasonably simulate whether it would work , but since there are modern supercomputers , you can simulate it and see that yes ! with the right materializing approach , it looks like it works .
and because you burn this 99 percent , the cost profile is much better .
in fact , you burn the waste , and you can even use the waste of today &apos;s reactors as a fuel .
instead of breaking your head , you just burn it . it &apos;s a great thing .
the uranium is used gradually , a little bit like a candle .
you can see that it &apos;s a kind of column , often called &quot; walking wave of reactor . &quot;
there &apos;s an enormous marketing for prescription drugs for people like you and me , which , if you think about it , doesn &apos;t make any sense at all , because we don &apos;t buy it .
that really solves the fuel problem .
here &apos;s a picture of a place in kentucky .
that &apos;s the waste , the 99 percent . you &apos;ve got the part that &apos;s burned today , so it &apos;s called the utilitarian uranium .
this is what drives the u.s. for hundreds of years .
and if you take ocean water cheap and just filtering , you get enough fuel for the rest of the life time on the planet .
you know , there are many challenges , but it &apos;s an example of many hundreds of concepts that we need to move forward .
let &apos;s think about how we should measure our success .
what should our testimony look like ?
now , let &apos;s go to the goal that we have to reach , and then we talk about the intermediate step .
many people talk about an 80 percent reduction by 2050 .
why do they advertise around us if we can &apos;t buy ?
it &apos;s really , really important that we can get there .
the rest of 20 percent will be produced in poor countries , and still some agriculture , and hopefully whale threats and cement will be clean until then .
so to reach that 80 percent , the developed world , including countries like china , has to completely reorder its electricity generation .
the other note is whether we use the zero-emission technology , whether it &apos;s used in all developed countries , and we &apos;re on the way to get it to the rest .
that &apos;s terribly important .
this is going to be a key element of this stuff .
if we go back from there , what would the 2020 testimony look like ?
it should contain the two elements again .
we should use the efficiency measures to get reductions on the way . the less we emitt , the less the carbon sum will be , and the temperature will be .
but actually , this note for the things that we do that don &apos;t completely lead to the big reductions , just equal , or even less important than the others , which is the speed of innovation for these breakthroughs .
the answer is , they expect us to call the doctor the next morning and ask for a change in the prescription .
we have to track these breakthroughs with full gas , and we can measure this : in corporate numbers , in pilot projects and regulation changes .
there are a lot of great books about this .
the al gore book &quot; we have the choice &quot; and david mckays &quot; sustainable energy without the hot air . &quot;
they really go through it , and they create a framework where this can be discussed in a wide way , because we need support from all sides .
there are some things that need to come together .
that &apos;s a wish .
a very concrete wish that we invent this technology .
if you just allowed me a wish for the next 50 years , i could choose the president , a vaccine , and i love that , or i could choose that wish , which is , half-powered energy episode without co2 , i will come up with that wish .
this has the biggest impact .
if we don &apos;t get that wish , the dig between the long term and the short-term thinking will be terrible people between the united states and china , between the poor and the rich country , and almost all of those two billion lives will be much worse .
something as profound as our identity is now a matter of choice , as this slide is supposed to show .
so what do we need to do ?
what are i appealing for ?
we need to use more research funds .
if countries meet in places like coppenhagen , they shouldn &apos;t just talk about co2 .
you should discuss this innovation strategy , and you would be shocked by the ridiculous funds that are being spent on these innovative approaches .
we need market rice , carbon taxes , cap &amp; amp ; trade , something that creates a price signal .
we need to spread the news .
we need to have dialogue more rational and more complete , and also the things that are being done by the government .
it &apos;s an important wish , but i think we can fulfill it .
thank you .
we don &apos;t inherit identity ; we invent it .
thank you .
thank you . thank you .
thank you . just to understand terrapower a little bit better -- first of all , can you give us an idea of the scale of this investment ?
bill gates : to do the simulation on a supercomputer , to get all the big scientists , what we &apos;ve done , we only need a few 10 million . and even if we &apos;ve tested our materials in a russian reactor to make sure it works reasonably , you &apos;re only in the 100th million .
the hard step is to build the first reactor , find another billion , the regularies and the place that actually builds the first of them .
once the first one is done , when it goes like promises , it &apos;s all right , because the economy , the energy density , is as different from nuclear , as we know it .
to really understand that , that means building deep into the ground , almost like a vertical column of nuclear fuel , this consumed uranium , and then the process begins at the top and continues to work down ?
bg : exactly . today you have to refill the reactor , so there are a lot of people and a lot of controls that can go wrong . this thing where you open it up and put things in -- or out . that &apos;s not good !
but if you have very cheap fuel , you can fill it up for 60 years -- think of a column -- that buried it without all the complexities .
and it &apos;s sitting there burning for 60 years , and then it &apos;s done .
and we often reinvent ourselves as often as we want .
a nuclear reactor that provides a solution to the trash itself .
bg : yeah . now , what happens to the garbage : you can let it sit -- there &apos;s a lot less waste with this method -- then you take it and put it in the next reactor and you burn it on .
and we start by taking the waste that already exists , which is in these refrigerators or dry tanks in the reactors . that &apos;s our starting fuel .
so what was a problem for these reactors is what we fill in our fillings , and it dramatically reduces the volume of garbage in the process .
but while they were talking to different people in the world about these possibilities .
where is the biggest interest to really do this ?
bg : well , we haven &apos;t yet set ourselves to a place , and there are a lot of interesting openings rules for everything that &apos;s called &quot; nuclear . &quot; there &apos;s a lot of interest , and the people of the company were in russia , india , china -- i was here , and i met the energy minister and i talked about how this fits the energy agenda .
i &apos;m optimistic . you know , the french and the japanese have done something in the direction .
this is a variant of one thing that was made .
this is an important step forward , but it &apos;s like a faster reactor , and some countries built it , so everyone who has implemented a fast reactor is a candidate for our first .
that means that every day , if you wake up in the morning , you have to decide what kind of person you want to be .
in your mind , time frame and likelihood to really bring something like this to life ?
bg : now we need one of these scalable , electricity generating things that &apos;s very cheap , we have 20 years to invent and then 20 years to use .
that &apos;s kind of the deadline that the environmental models have shown us that we need to hold .
and , you know , terrapower , if everything goes well , and that &apos;s a big wish , could be easily held .
and luckily , there are dozens of companies today , and we need hundreds that , as well as when their approaches work , can provide the funding for their pilots .
and it would be best if you could do it more , because then you could use a mixture .
anyway , we need a solution .
in terms of the great possible breakthroughs , is this the biggest thing you know ?
bg : an energy breakthrough is the most important .
it would have been without the environmental requirement , but it makes it so much more important .
in terms of marriage and family , there was a time when the standard assumption was that almost everybody had one , and they got married as fast as they could , and then they got kids as quickly as they could .
in the nuclear sector , there are other innovative companies .
you know , we don &apos;t know their work as well as this , but there &apos;s the modular method , which is a different approach .
there &apos;s a liquid reactor type that seems a little bit difficult , but maybe they &apos;ll say that about us .
and so there are different , but the beauty of this is that a uranium molecule has a million times as much energy as a , say , a coal-fired molecule , and therefore , if you can deal with the problems , and they &apos;re mostly the radiation , the footprint and the cost , it plays the potential , so the impact on the country and other things , almost in your own league .
if that doesn &apos;t work , then what ?
do we have to introduce emergency measures to try to keep the temperature stable ?
bg : when you get into that situation , it &apos;s like you &apos;ve eaten too much , and you &apos;re about to get a heart attack . what do you do ? you might need a heart surgery or something .
there &apos;s a research direction called geoengineering , which is about various techniques to delay global warming , so that we can get 20 or 30 years longer to go together .
this is just an insurance method .
you hope we don &apos;t need it .
the only real choice was &quot; who , &quot; not when , and not what they did afterwards .
some people say you shouldn &apos;t work on insurance , because that might make you lazy , so you keep eating , because you know that the heart surgery is going to save you .
i don &apos;t know if that &apos;s smart , if you look at the importance of this problem , but there &apos;s a discourse in geoengineering about whether you should have that available , if things get faster , or that innovation takes longer than we expect .
climate change dentists : do you have one or two sentences for those to maybe convince you ?
bg : well , unfortunately , the skeptics live in very different camps .
those who make scientific arguments are very little .
do you say that there are negative effects that have to do with the clouds that are changing things ?
there are very , very few things that you can even say that there is a chance in a million .
the main problem here is similar to aids .
you make the mistake now , and you pay very much later .
and so the idea is , now , if you have all kinds of urgent problems to invest in something that you have later -- and then you get the investment not so clear . in fact , the ipcc report is not necessarily the worst scenario , and there are people in the rich world who are looking at ipcc and saying , okay , that &apos;s not a big drama .
let them be like me . &quot;
today , everything is easy to have .
the fact is that this uncertainty should make us worry .
but my dream here is that if you can make it economic , and at the same time eliminate co2 , the skeptics say , &quot; okay , i don &apos;t care that it &apos;s not emitting co2 , i almost wish it was doing it , but i &apos;m going to accept it because it &apos;s cheaper than the previous method . &quot;
and that would be your answer to the bjorn lomborg argument that if you use all this time and energy to solve the co2 problem , all the other goals suffer from it , the poverty reduction , the malaria reduction , and so on , that there is a stupid waste of resources to invest in it , while there are better things that we can do .
bg : well , the actual spending on research -- let &apos;s say the u.s. should spend 10 billion more a year than they do today -- that &apos;s not that dramatic .
they shouldn &apos;t suffer from other things .
you get to large amounts of money , and here you can disagree with people who are reasonable if you have something that &apos;s not economic , and you try to fund that . for me , most of the waste is happening .
unless you &apos;re very short before a cost breakthrough , and you &apos;re just funding the learning curve , and i think we should try to do more things that have the potential to be much cheaper .
if the waste you get is a very high energy cycle , then only the rich can keep up .
i mean , each of us here could spend five times as much on our energy without changing our lifestyle .
for the bottom two billion , but it &apos;s a disaster .
i teach wonderful intelligent students , and i give them 20 percent less work than i used to do .
and even lomborg is thinking about .
his new masche is now , &quot; why isn &apos;t the research going to talk about ? &quot;
he &apos;s still associated with the skepticist camp because of his earlier stories , but he understood that this is a very lonely group , and so he &apos;s now bringing the research argument .
and this is a thought process that i think is appropriate .
the research , it &apos;s just crazy how little it &apos;s being supported .
bill , i think i &apos;m speaking for almost all the people here when i say , i really hope that your wish will be true . thank you very much .
bg : thank you .
a few years ago , here at ted , peter skillman presented a design competition called &quot; the marshmallow challenge . &quot;
the idea is pretty simple . four teams have to build the largest possible free-standing structure with 20 spaghetti , about a meter tape , about 1-foot thread and a marshmallow .
the marshmallow has to be on top .
and that &apos;s not because they &apos;re less smart , not because they &apos;re less careful .
and , although it &apos;s really simple , it &apos;s actually really hard , because it urges people to work very quickly .
and so i thought this was an interesting idea , and i turned it into a design workshop .
it was a huge success .
since then , i &apos;ve done about 70 workshops around the world , with students , developers and architects , even with ctos of the fortune 50-company , and there &apos;s something about this task that allows deep insights into the nature of collaboration , and i want to share some of them with you .
usually most people are starting to orient themselves in the task .
they &apos;re talking about what it &apos;s going to look like , they &apos;re hanging around power .
then they spend a little bit of time in planning and organization , and they sketch and put spaghetti out .
they spend a lot of their time building up growing structures all the time .
and finally , just before you don &apos;t have time , somebody takes the marshmallow and they put it gently on the top , step back , and &quot; ta-da ! &quot; admire your work .
but then what happens , almost always , is that the ta-da becomes a &quot; uh-oh , &quot; because the weight of the marshmallow causes the whole thing to bend and fall down .
it &apos;s because they &apos;re busy with other things , they ask themselves , &quot; should i marry or not ? should i marry now ?
there are a series of people who have much more &quot; uh-oh &quot; moments than others , and among the worst , they &apos;re fresh bwl graduates .
they lie , they cheat , they &apos;re confused , and they really produce drought shapes .
and of course , there are teams who have much more ta-da shapes , and under the best , there are fresh graduates of kindergarten .
and that &apos;s pretty amazing .
as peter told us , they not only produce the highest towers , but also the most interesting structures of all .
what you might ask is : how does this happen ? why ? what about those ?
and peter says , &quot; none of the kids are investing in being the head of the spaghetti gmbh . &quot;
they don &apos;t spend time in power fights .
but there &apos;s another reason .
and that is that bwl students have been trained to find the right plan , ok !
should i marry later ? should i have kids , or should i have a career ? &quot;
and then realizing it .
what happens when you put the marshmallow on the top , you don &apos;t have time , and what happens ?
it &apos;s a crisis .
sounds familiar , what ?
what children are doing differently is they &apos;re starting with the marshmallow and building prototypes , successful prototypes , always with the marshmallow at the top , so that they have multiple times the ability to repair badly prototypes .
constructors recognize this kind of collaboration as the core of an iterative process .
and with every attempt , the kids get instant feedback , and what doesn &apos;t work .
so the performance of working with prototypes is essential -- but let &apos;s see how different teams work .
the average for most of them is about 50 inches , bwl students are creating half of them , lawyers are doing a little bit more , but not much , children &apos;s children are better than adults .
who is the most successful ?
they &apos;re all engaging questions .
architects and engineers , fortunately .
one foot is the highest thing i &apos;ve seen .
and why ? because they understand triangles and self-amplifying geometric patterns are the key to building stable structures .
ceos is a little bit about average . but this is where it gets interesting .
if you put an executive administrator on the team , they get significantly better .
it &apos;s incredible . you look around and you see , &quot; this team will win . &quot;
you can predict that . why does that work ?
because they have special skills of the process companion .
they guide the process , they understand it .
and that team , which rules and is looking at the work , will significantly improve the performance of the team .
and you &apos;re going to answer these questions regardless of whether that means doing all the tasks that i &apos;m going to give you , and not getting a good note in my class .
specialized skills and processing skills and their combination lead to success .
if you have 10 teams that are typical , you get about six that have stable structures .
now , i tried something interesting .
i thought , let &apos;s take the poker deployment .
so i offered a $ 10,000 software for the winners .
what do you think happened to these design students ?
what was the result ?
this is what happened . not a team had a stable structure .
if anyone had built a two-inch construction , they would have carried the price home .
so isn &apos;t it interesting that high competitions have a strong effect ?
and in fact , you should do that . these are important questions to answer .
we repeated this practice with the same students .
so what do you think happened ?
now they understood the advantage of the prototyping .
so , the same bad team of the best was made of the same .
they produced the highest construction in the slightest time .
so there are profound lessons for us about the nature of drive and success .
you might ask : why would someone actually spend time creating a marshmallow challenge ?
the reason is , i &apos;m helping digital tools and processes to help teams create cars , video games and visual effects .
and what the marshmallow challenge does is it helps them identify hidden assumptions .
because frankly , every project has its own marshmallow .
work -- we &apos;re blessed , as carl pointed out , with the technology that allows us to work every minute from every place on the planet every day -- to the randolph hotel .
the challenge provides a shared experience , a common language , or basic posture , to build the right prototype .
and this is the value of this experience , this simple exercise .
and those of you who are interested can visit marshmallowchallenge.com .
it &apos;s a blog where you see how to build the marshmallows .
there &apos;s a step-by-step guidance there .
they find crazy examples from all over the world , how people are optimizing and refining the system .
there are also world records .
and the basic lesson , i think , is that construction is actually a commitment sport .
it demands that we all put our senses on the task , and that we use our thinking optimally , like our emotions and our actions , in the challenge that we face .
and sometimes a little prototype of this experience is everything that it takes to take us from a &quot; uh-oh &quot; -- to a &quot; ta-da &quot; moment .
there &apos;s a corner , by the way , that i &apos;m not going to tell you about where the wirelessplan works .
and that can make a big difference .
thank you .
let &apos;s pretend we have a machine here .
a big machine , a cool , ted machine , and that &apos;s a time machine .
and everyone in this room has to go in .
and you can go to the past , you can go to the future ; you can &apos;t stay here and now .
and i wonder what you would choose , because i &apos;ve asked my friends a lot lately this question , and they all wanted to go to the past .
i don &apos;t know . they wanted to go back to the time before there were cars , or twitter , or &quot; america is looking for the superstar . &quot;
i don &apos;t know .
i &apos;m convinced that somehow you &apos;ve moved to nostalgia , to wonder .
and then you would suddenly realize what it would be like if you couldn &apos;t speak your own language .
i &apos;m not going to tell you because i want to use it .
and i understand that .
i &apos;m not part of this group , i have to say .
i don &apos;t want to go into the past , not because i &apos;m an adventurer .
it &apos;s because possibilities on this planet are not going back , they &apos;re going forward .
so i want to go into this machine , and i want to go into the future .
this is the greatest time you &apos;ve ever had on this planet , no matter what scale you &apos;re going to do : health , wealth , mobility , opportunities , declining disease .
there was never a time like this before .
my great-grandparents all died when they were 60 .
my grandparents urged that number to 70 .
my parents are the 80 on the heels .
so what it means is to make this incredible freedom of choice in terms of making decisions , again and again , and again , whether we should work or not .
so there should be a nine of them at the beginning of my death .
but it &apos;s not even about people like us , because this is a bigger thing than that .
a child born in new delhi today can expect to live as long as the richest man in the world 100 years ago .
think about it . that &apos;s an incredible fact .
and why is that ?
the smallpox . smallpox killed billions of people on this planet .
they &apos;ve reformed the demographics of the earth in a way that no war has ever done .
they are gone . they have disappeared .
we &apos;ve forced them . puff .
in the rich world , there are diseases that millions of us have threatened only one generation before , hardly yet .
we can watch our kids play football , and we have our cell phone on one hip , and our blackberry on other hips , and probably our laptop on our lap .
diphlet , root , child paralysis ...
does anybody even know what that is ?
vaccines , modern medicine , our ability to feed billions of people , these are successes of the scientific method .
and in my view , the scientific method of trying to do things is to see if it works , change it if it doesn &apos;t , one of the greatest achievements in humanity .
so that &apos;s the good news .
unfortunately , this is all the good news , because there are a couple of other problems , and they were often mentioned .
and one of them is that despite all of our achievements , a billion people in the world go to bed hungry every day .
this number is going up , and it &apos;s going up very quickly , and it &apos;s embarrassing .
and not only that , we &apos;ve used our imagination to devastating this world .
drinking water , ancient land , rainforests , oil , gas : they disappear , soon , and if we don &apos;t innovate from this chaos , we also disappear .
and even though they &apos;re all turned off , every minute we &apos;re watching our child mutilating a football game , we &apos;re also asking ourselves , &quot; should i take that call ?
so the question is : can we do that ? i think we can .
i think it &apos;s clear that we can produce food that will feed billions of people without raping the country that they live on .
i think we can power this world that doesn &apos;t destroy it at the same time .
i really believe that , and no , that &apos;s not a wishthinking .
but this keeps me awake at night -- one of the things that keeps me awake at night . we &apos;ve never necessarily used scientific progress as it is now , never before .
and we &apos;ve never been able to use it reasonably , as we can today .
we &apos;re at the threshold of amazing , amazing events in many areas , and yet i really think that we have to go back hundreds and 300 years before the enlightenment to find a time when we &apos;ve struggled progress , where we &apos;ve triggered over these things , to more fronts than we are now .
people wrap up in their beliefs , so tightly that they can &apos;t be liberated .
it will not even liberate the truth .
and listen , everybody has a right to their opinion ; even a right to their opinion for progress .
should i respond to this email ? should i write this letter ? &quot;
but you know what they &apos;re not right to do ?
they &apos;re not right to their own facts . &apos; sorry , they don &apos;t have it .
and it took me a while to figure that out .
about a decade ago , i wrote an article about vaccinations for &quot; the new yorker , &quot; a little article .
and i was amazed to come across resistance , to resistance with what is the most effective thing in health care in human history .
i didn &apos;t know what to do , so i just did whatever i do , i wrote an article , and i went on .
and soon after that , i wrote an article about genetically engineered food .
the same thing , only bigger .
people were playing crazy .
so i also wrote an article about this , and i couldn &apos;t understand why people thought that would be &quot; frankenfood , &quot; why they thought that molecules were in a certain way , rather than a random way , to move around was a handle on nature .
and even though the answer to the question &quot; no , &quot; it will surely be your experience of your child &apos;s football game very different than it would have been .
but you know , i do what i do . i wrote the article , i kept on going .
i mean , i &apos;m a journalist .
we &apos;re typing , we &apos;re rich , we &apos;re going to eat , that &apos;s okay .
but i was worried about these articles , and i couldn &apos;t figure out why , and eventually i figured it out .
and that &apos;s because these fanatics who made me crazy were not fanatics at all .
these were careful people , educated people , decent people .
they were just like the people in this room .
and that made me so mess .
but then i thought , you know what , let &apos;s face it .
we &apos;ve come to a point where we don &apos;t have the same relationship with progress as we used to .
everywhere we look , big things and small things , material things and lifestyle , life is a matter of choice .
we &apos;re talking about it twenty .
we &apos;re talking ironically about this , with little demonstrations about this : &quot; progress . &quot;
okay , there are reasons for that , and i think we know what are the reasons .
we have the trust in institutions , in authority , and sometimes lost into science itself , and there is no reason why it shouldn &apos;t be .
you can just call it a couple of names , and people will understand .
chernobyl , bhopal , the challengers , vioxx , weapons of mass destruction , the u.s. presidential election in 2000 .
i mean , you know , you can choose your own list .
there are questions and problems with the people we thought they were always right , so be skeptical .
ask questions , demand evidence , demand evidence .
don &apos;t take anything for granted .
and the world we lived in looked like this .
but here &apos;s the thing : if you have to get evidence , you have to take that evidence , and we &apos;re not good at it .
and i can say that for the reason that we now live in an epidemic of fear , as i &apos;ve never seen it and hopefully never seen again .
about 12 years ago , a story was published , a terrible story that connected the autism epidemic to the masers , mumps , and the vaccine , and it was associated with the vaccine .
very scary .
so studies were conducted to see if that was true .
well , studies should be done ; that &apos;s a serious issue .
the data came in .
the data came from the united states , from england , from sweden , from canada , and they were all the same , no correlation , no connection , no connection .
it doesn &apos;t matter . it doesn &apos;t matter because we believe in anecdotes , we believe what we see , what we believe , what we believe , what makes us feel real .
we don &apos;t believe in a bundle of documents from a government worker who gives us data , and i understand that , i think we all do .
so i want to say , there were some choices , but not everything was a matter of choice .
but you know what ?
the result of that was catastrophic .
catastrophic because of this fact , the united states is one of the only countries in the world where vaccinators are falling for masses .
that &apos;s scandalous , and we should be ashamed .
it &apos;s terrible .
what happened was that we could do that .
well , i understand that . i do .
because anybody here has masses ?
has a single audience ever seen anyone die of masses ?
it doesn &apos;t happen very often .
and the world we live in now looks like this .
it doesn &apos;t happen in this country at all , but 160,000 times in the world last year .
that &apos;s a lot of deaths from masses , 20 an hour .
but because this hasn &apos;t happened here , we can displace it , and people like jenny mccarthy can walk around and preach messages of fear and illiteracy of platforms like oprah and larry king live .
and they can do that because they don &apos;t connect cause and correlation .
they don &apos;t understand that these things seem to be the same , but almost never the same .
and this is something we need to learn , and very quickly .
this guy was a hero , jonas salk .
he liberated us from one of the worst spirits of humanity .
no fear , no source , child paralysis , puff , gone .
the guy in the middle is not so much .
so today i want to take you on a journey through the ethnosphere , a short journey through the ethnosphere , to try to make you understand what was actually lost .
and the question is , is that good news or bad news ?
it &apos;s called paul offit .
he &apos;s just developed a rotavirus vaccine with a few other people .
it can save the lives of 4,00- , 500,000 children a year in the developing world .
pretty good , right ?
now , that &apos;s good , besides paul walking around talking about vaccines and saying how valuable they are , and people should just stop jamming .
and he actually says that .
so paul is a terrorist .
when paul talks in a public audience , he can &apos;t say without armed guards .
he gets calls at home because people like to tell him that they know where his kids go to school .
and why ? because paul made a vaccine .
the answer is yes .
i don &apos;t need to say that , but vaccines are essential .
if you take them on , go back to the diseases , terrible diseases , and that &apos;s happening right now .
we have masses in this country now .
and that gets worse , and pretty soon , kids will die again , because that &apos;s just a matter of numbers .
and they &apos;re not just going to die of masses .
what about child paralysis ? let &apos;s take that . why not ?
a commander of mine wrote me a couple of weeks ago , and she said , i think i &apos;m a little too shrimp .
no one has ever said that before .
she wouldn &apos;t vaccinate her child &apos;s paralysis . no way .
fine .
we all know what &apos;s good about it , so i &apos;m going to talk about what &apos;s bad about it .
why ? because we don &apos;t have child paralysis . and you know what ?
we had no child paralysis in this country yesterday .
today , i don &apos;t know , maybe somebody in lagos this morning went into an airplane and is flying to los angeles right now , he &apos;s over ohio .
and in a few hours , he lands , and he rents a car , and he comes to long beach , and he &apos;s going to visit one of these fantastic ted dinner tonight .
and he doesn &apos;t know that he &apos;s infected with a paralyzing disease , and we don &apos;t know that either , because that &apos;s how the world works .
this is the planet we live on . don &apos;t pretend it &apos;s not .
we love to wrap ourselves in lies . we love that .
did you take all your vitamins this morning ?
echinacea , a little antioxidantium that helps you on the leaps .
i know they did it because half the americans do it every day .
all of these choices have two effects , two negative effects on people .
they take this stuff , and they take alternative cures , and it doesn &apos;t matter how often we find that they &apos;re useless .
the data shows this all the time .
they evaporate their urine . they almost never do more .
that &apos;s okay , you want to pay 28 billion dollars for dark urine .
i totally agree with you .
dark urine . dark .
why do we do that ? why do we do that ?
well , i think i understand -- we hate the pharmaceutical industry .
we hate too strong government . we don &apos;t have trust in the system .
and we shouldn &apos;t . our healthcare system is mies .
one effect , paradoxically , is that he paralyzes instead of releasing .
it &apos;s cruel to millions of people .
it &apos;s absolutely cold and soulful to ourselves that can afford .
so we &apos;re going away from that , and where are we going ?
we &apos;re going into the arms of the placebo industry .
that &apos;s great . i love the placebo industry .
but you know , this is really a serious issue , because this stuff is crap , and we spend billions of dollars on it .
and i have all kinds of little props here .
none of them -- gingko , fraud , echinacea , fraud , acai , i don &apos;t even know what that is , but we spend billions of dollars on it ; it &apos;s fraud .
and you know what ? when i say that , people scream at me and they say , &quot; what &apos;s it that makes you care ? let people do what they want .
that &apos;s how you feel good . &quot;
with so many options you can choose , it &apos;s very hard to decide at all .
and you know what ? you &apos;re wrong .
because i don &apos;t care whether it &apos;s the minister of health who says , &quot; hmm , i &apos;m not going to take the evidence of my experts on mammography , &quot; or any cancer quacksalber who wants to treat his patients with caffs .
if you go on this path where belief and magic replace evidence and science , you get to a place where you don &apos;t want to be .
they get to thabo mbeki in south africa .
he killed 400,000 of his people because he insisted that red beef , bone and lemon oil are much more effective than antiretroviral drugs that we know can slow down the course of aids .
hundreds of thousands of unnecessary deaths in a country that is scraped worse than any other one of this disease .
please don &apos;t tell me that these things don &apos;t have consequences .
they have them . they always have them .
now , the most brainless epidemic we &apos;re in is this absurd struggle between the advocates genetically engineered food and the bio-elite .
this is an idiotic debate . it has to stop .
i &apos;m going to give you another dramatic example of this , a study of investing in volunteer retirement .
it &apos;s a debate about words , about metaphors .
that &apos;s ideology , not science .
everything we eat , every rice , every branch of petersilence , every rose flour , has been changed by the people .
you know , there were no mandarines in paradise .
there were no cantaloupe-melons .
there were no christmas trees . we did all this .
we &apos;ve done it in the last 11,000 years .
and some of it worked and some of it didn &apos;t .
we got rid of what didn &apos;t work .
now we can do it more deeply . and of course there are risks , but we can do something like vitamin a in rice , and this stuff can help millions of people to extend their lives .
a colleague of mine had access to investment records of vanguard , the giant fund society of about a million collaborators and about 2,000 different jobs .
don &apos;t you want to do that ?
i have to say , i don &apos;t understand that .
we reject genetically engineered food .
why do we do that ?
now , what i hear all the time is : too many chemicals , pesticides , hormones , monoculture , we don &apos;t want huge fields with one thing , that &apos;s wrong .
we don &apos;t want companies to patent lives .
we don &apos;t want companies to own seeds .
and you know what my answer to all this is ?
yes , they &apos;re right . let &apos;s fix that .
it &apos;s true , we have a huge food problem , but that &apos;s not science .
and what she found was per 10 investment fund that the employer offered , took the participation by two percent .
this has nothing to do with science .
it &apos;s right , morality , patent stuff .
you know that science is not a company .
it &apos;s not a country .
it &apos;s not even an idea ; it &apos;s a process .
it &apos;s a process , and sometimes it works and sometimes it doesn &apos;t work , but the idea that we shouldn &apos;t allow science to do their work , because we &apos;re afraid that it &apos;s a real dead end , and it keeps millions of people from flourishing .
you know , in the next 50 years , we &apos;re going to have to grow 70 percent more food than right now . 70 percent .
this investment in africa in the last 30 years .
shame . shame .
you need that , and we don &apos;t give it to you .
they offer 50 investment funds -- 10 percent less employees participate than if they were just going to offer five . why ?
and why ? genetically modified food .
we don &apos;t want to encourage people to eat this rotten stuff , like maniok .
maniok is something that eats half a billion people .
it &apos;s kind of like a potato .
it &apos;s just a bundle of calories . it &apos;s mies .
it has no nutrients , it has no protein , and scientists are building all this stuff in it .
and then people could eat it , and they wouldn &apos;t get blind .
you wouldn &apos;t starve , and you know what ?
that would be nice . it wouldn &apos;t be chez panisse , but it would be beautiful .
and all i can say about this is , why do we fight this ?
we &apos;re all born . we &apos;re bringing children to the world .
now there are some of us who forget , in a sense , that when i say , &quot; different possibilities of being , &quot; really different possibilities of being .
because it &apos;s 50 investment fund , which is the choice , it &apos;s so hard to decide what to choose that they &apos;re going to push it up in the morning .
i mean , let &apos;s ask ourselves , why do we fight this ?
because we don &apos;t want to move genes around ?
it &apos;s not about pushing genes around . it &apos;s not about chemicals .
it &apos;s not about our ridiculous passion for hormones , our insights for larger food , better food , unique food .
it &apos;s not about rice krispies , it &apos;s about keeping people alive , and it &apos;s going to be time to understand what that means .
because you know what ?
if we don &apos;t do that , if we continue to do it as we have to be guilty of something we don &apos;t think we want to be guilty of , high-tech colonialism .
there &apos;s no other description of what &apos;s going on here .
it &apos;s selfish , it &apos;s ugly , it &apos;s not worthy , and we really have to stop that .
so after this incredibly funny conversation , you might want to say , &quot; do you still want to go into this ridiculous time machine and go to the future ? &quot;
and then tomorrow , and then tomorrow , and tomorrow , and tomorrow , and tomorrow , of course , never comes tomorrow .
anyway . i certainly want that .
right now , it &apos;s in the present , but we have an incredible opportunity .
we can put this time machine on everything we want .
we can move them where we want to move them , and we &apos;re going to move them where we want to .
we have to have these conversations , and we have to think , but when we get into the time machine , and we &apos;re going to be happy to do that .
i know that we can , and as far as i &apos;m concerned , that &apos;s something that the world needs now .
thank you .
thank you .
i &apos;ve been interested in the placebo effect for a while , and it may seem strange that a magician is interested in it , unless you look at it like me , as &quot; a deception that becomes real , if someone believes it hard enough . &quot;
in other words , sugar pills have shown a measurable effect in some studies , the placebo effect , and that &apos;s because the person thinks what &apos;s happening to them is a pharmaceutical or a kind of ... in pain management , for example , there is , if the patient only believes it , there is a measurable effect in the body called the placebo effect .
understand that it &apos;s not just that people have to eat dog food when they go to retirement , because they don &apos;t have enough money to go back , it also means making decisions so hard that they miss large investers in their employers .
a deception becomes a real thing , because somebody perceives it that way .
so in order for us to understand each other , i want to show you a fundamental , simple magic trick .
and i &apos;m going to show you how it works . this is a trick that has been at least since the 1950s in every magic book for children .
i myself learned it from the cub scout magic of the path finder in the 1970s .
i &apos;m going to do it for you and then explain it .
and then i &apos;ll explain why i explain it .
so , look what happens .
the knife that you can study , my hand that you can study .
i &apos;m just going to keep the knife in my lap like this .
i push my sleeve back .
by not participating , they &apos;re giving up to 5,000 u.s. dollars a year on the employer who would have been happy to raise their contribution .
and to make sure that nothing disappears in my sleeve or comes out of him , i &apos;m just going to put together my wrist right here .
in this way , you can see that there &apos;s nothing moving at no time , and as long as i push here , nothing can go into my sleeve or come out .
and the goal is very simple .
i will open my hand , and hopefully , if everything goes well , the knife will be held by my mere physical magnetism .
it &apos;s actually sitting so hard in its place that i can shake it without the knife falling down .
nothing goes into my sleeve or comes out , no trickety , and you can study everything .
ta-da !
now , this is a trick that i often teach little kids that are interested in magic , because you can learn a lot about deception when you look closer , even though it &apos;s a very simple trick .
probably many of you in this room know this trick .
this is how it works .
paralysis is a consequence of too many choices .
i hold the knife in my hand .
i say that i include my wrist to make sure that nothing in my sleeve disappears or comes out , and that &apos;s a lie .
the reason i hold my wrist is because it &apos;s really the secret of the illusion .
because the moment i turn my hand away from you , so you can see it from the back , this finger is moving , my time-finger , just from where he was , to a position where he was so extended .
great trick ?
there &apos;s somebody in the back who didn &apos;t have a childhood .
so , it &apos;s here . right .
and when i turn around , the finger changes its position .
and now you could talk about why this is a deception , why you don &apos;t perceive that there are only three fingers down here : because the mind and the way it process information , it doesn &apos;t count one , two , three , but it sees it as a group .
but that &apos;s actually not what this is about now , and then i open my hand .
and i think it makes the world look like this .
of course , it &apos;s stuck there , but not through the magnetism of my body , but through a trick , through my time finger , which is now there .
and when i close my hand , the same thing happens by turning back , it &apos;s hidden by this movement that the finger is moving back again .
i take that hand away . and here &apos;s the knife .
you can do this trick to your friends and neighbors . thank you .
now , what does this have to do with the placebo effect ?
a year ago or so , i read a study that really blew my mind .
i &apos;m not a doctor or a researcher , and so that was an amazing thing for me .
because what it turns out is that if you offer a placebo in the form of a white pill , in the form of an aspirin pill , it &apos;s just a round , white pill that has a particular measurable effect .
but if you change the shape in which you give the placebo , for example , into a smaller pill , and you color those blue and you cook a letter on it , it &apos;s actually measurably more effective .
and that , although none of them are pharmaceutical -- they &apos;re just sugar pills .
you really want to make the decision right if it &apos;s for all eternity , right ?
but a white pill is not as good as a blue pill .
what ? that really made me freak out .
but it turns out that that &apos;s not all it is .
if you take capsules , they &apos;re even more effective than pills of any shape .
a colored capsule , which is yellow at one end and the other red , is better than a white capsule .
the dosage also matters .
a pill twice a day is not as good as three pills -- i can &apos;t remember the accurate statistics now . i &apos;m sorry .
but the key thing is , ...
... that the doses also matter .
and the shape plays a role .
they don &apos;t want to choose the wrong investment fund , or even the wrong salad ressing .
and if you want to have the ultimate placebo effect , you have to reach the needle .
right ? a syringe with an ineffective -- a few milliliters of an effective substance that you inject to a patient .
this creates a very strong picture in the head , which is much stronger than a white pill .
this chart is really -- i &apos;m going to show you another time when we have a projector .
so the fact is that the white pill doesn &apos;t work as well as the blue pill that doesn &apos;t work as well as a capsule that doesn &apos;t work as well as the needle .
and none of it has any really pharmaceutical property , and it &apos;s just our belief in it , which is a stronger effect in us .
i wanted to know if i could use this idea for a magic trick .
i take something that &apos;s obviously a deception , and i make it look real .
we know from this study that you have to reach the needle when it comes to the point .
this is an eight-inch helicopter . it &apos;s very , very sharp , and i &apos;m going to sterilize it a little bit first .
so that &apos;s one effect . the other effect is that even if we overcome the paralysis and make a decision , we end up with less satisfaction with the outcome of choice than if we had the opportunity to choose between less possibilities .
this is really my flesh . it &apos;s not damians &apos; special meat .
this is my skin . this is not a special effect from hollywood .
now i &apos;m going to put this needle in my skin , and i &apos;m going to go through it , until it strikes back out on the other side .
if you &apos;re miserable -- if you &apos;re easily in the ear -- i showed this to a couple of friends last night in the hotel room , and some people i didn &apos;t know , and a woman has become almost miserable .
so i propose that if you &apos;re going to get bad fast , look away for the next 30 seconds , or , you know , i &apos;m going to do the first hot part here in the back .
you can see it in a moment , but you can also see away if you want .
so , it goes like this , right here , where my flesh begins , at the bottom of my arm , i &apos;m just going to make a little bit of an insight .
i &apos;m really sorry . does it make you crazy ?
and now just a little bit through my skin and on the other side like this .
now we &apos;re actually in the same situation that we had at the knife trick .
and there are several reasons for this .
about it .
but now you can &apos;t count my fingers , right ?
so , i &apos;m going to show you . this is one , two , three , four , five .
well , yeah .
i know what people think when they see that .
they say , &quot; okay , it &apos;s not that stupid and it &apos;s going through the skin just to give us a few minutes . &quot;
well , then i &apos;m going to show you .
what does this look like ? pretty good .
yeah , i know .
and people in the back say , &quot; okay . i didn &apos;t really see that . &quot;
for example , take this child from the barasana in the northwest of the amazon , the people of the anakonda , believe that they came up with mythologically the milky river from the east in the belly of sacred snakes .
one of them is required by the great selection of different salad ressings , if you buy one , and it &apos;s not perfect -- and what salad ressing is already perfect ? it &apos;s easy to imagine that you could have made a different decision that would have been better . and what happened is that imagery leads you to regret the decision , and this adviser is going to be negative to the satisfaction that you had made , even if it was a good decision .
people in the side rooms are coming in now .
let me show you from near .
this is really my skin . this is not a special effect from hollywood .
that &apos;s my flesh , and i can turn it around .
sorry . if you get bad , look away , don &apos;t look .
the people in the back , or the people who see it at some point in the video , will say , &quot; well , that looks pretty impressive , but if it were real , it would be -- you see , here &apos;s a hole , and there , if it was really real , it would bleed . &quot;
okay , let me squeeze a little bit of blood for you .
yes , here it is .
i would normally take the needle out .
i would clean my arm and show you that there are no wounds .
the more possibilities there are , the easier it is to regret nothing at all that is disappointing to the choice that they make .
but i think in this framework here and with the intention of making something real out of a deception , i &apos;m just going to leave the needle in there and go off the stage .
we &apos;re going to meet a couple of times in the next few days .
i hope you &apos;ll enjoy it . thank you very much .
everybody is talking today about happiness .
i &apos;ve let some people count the number of books that have been published with happiness in the title in the last five years , and they &apos;ve given up about 40 , and there &apos;s been a lot more .
there &apos;s a tremendous wave of interest in happiness among researchers .
there &apos;s a lot of happiness coaching .
everybody would like to make people happier .
but despite all this tide of work , there are several cognitive traps that are sort of making it almost impossible to think about happiness .
and my talk today is going to be mostly about these cognitive traps .
second , what economists call oppertunity costs .
that &apos;s true of layered thinking about their own happiness , and it &apos;s true for scientists who think about happiness , because it turns out that we &apos;re just as mess as everyone else .
the first of these fall is a contradiction to admit complexity .
it turns out that the word happiness is simply not a useful word anymore , because we apply it to too many different things .
i think there &apos;s a certain meaning that we could restrict it to , but by and large , that &apos;s something that we need to give up , and we &apos;re going to have to take the complicated view of what well-being is .
the second trap is a confusion of experience and memory : it &apos;s basically between being happy in his life and being happy about his life or happy with his life .
and these are two very different concepts , and they &apos;re both thrown together in the idea of happiness .
and the third is the focus illusion , and that &apos;s the unfortunate fact that we can &apos;t think about a circumstance that affects well-being without distorting its meaning .
i mean , that &apos;s a real cognitive trap .
there &apos;s just no way to get it right .
now i &apos;d like to start with an example of someone who had a question and answer session after one of my lectures , who reported a story . &#91; unclear &#93; he said he had heard a symphony , and it was absolutely glorious music , and at the very end of the recording , there was a terrible circular sound .
dan gilbert made a big point this morning by telling how much we rate things depends on what we compare it to .
and then he added in , really quite emotionally , that has ruined the whole experience .
but it didn &apos;t have that .
what it had ruined was the memories of the experience .
he had the experience .
he had 20 minutes of glorious music .
they didn &apos;t count because he was in love with a memory ; the memory was ruined , and the memory was all he had received .
what this really tells us is that we could think about ourselves and other people in the sense of two types of self .
there is a living self that lives in the present and knows the present is able to experience the past , but basically only has the present .
it &apos;s the living self that the doctor is talking about -- you know , when the doctor says , &quot; is it hurting now if i &apos;m going to attack you here ? &quot;
and then there &apos;s a memory of self , and the memory of itself is that that counts and sustains the history of our lives , and it &apos;s the one that the doctor addresses by asking the question , &quot; how have you felt lately ? &quot;
well , if there are lots of alternatives to this , it &apos;s easy to imagine attractive properties of alternatives that they exclude , that makes them less happy with the alternatives that they chose .
or , &quot; what was your journey to albania ? &quot; or something like that .
these are two very different units , the living self and the remembering self , and the two of them to confuse is part of the misconception of happiness .
now , the memory itself is a storyteller .
and this really starts with a fundamental reaction to our memories -- it starts immediately .
not only do we tell stories when we get to tell stories .
our memory tells us stories , which means what we can keep from our experiences is a story .
and let &apos;s start with an example .
there &apos;s an old study .
these are actual patients undergoing a painful procedure .
i &apos;m not going to go into the details . she &apos;s not painful anymore , but she was painful when this study was done in the 1990s .
here &apos;s an example . for those of you who are not new yorkers , i apologize .
they were asked to report their pain every 60 seconds .
and here are two patients . these are their records .
and they &apos;re asked , &quot; who has suffered more ? &quot;
and that &apos;s a very simple question .
patient b clearly suffered more . his gut reflection was longer , and every minute of pain patient a had patient b , and more .
but now there &apos;s another question : &quot; how much did these patients think they were suffering ? &quot;
and here &apos;s a surprise .
and the surprise is that patient a had a much worse memory of the gut reflection than patient b .
the stories of the reflections were different , and because a very critical part of the story is how it ends .
and none of these stories are very building or great -- but one of them is clear .
but here &apos;s what you should have thought .
but one of them is much worse than the other .
and the one that &apos;s worse was where the pain was at the very end of his peak . it &apos;s a bad story .
how do we know that ?
because we asked these people about their gut reflection , and much later , &quot; how bad was the whole thing overall ? &quot;
and it was much worse for a than for b in memory .
now , this is a direct conflict between the living self and the remembering self .
clearly , from the perspective of the living self , b had a worse time .
now , what you could do with patient a , and we actually did clinical experiments , and it &apos;s been done , and it works , you could actually extend patient a &apos;s gut reflection by just letting the tube in there and not too much of it .
that will cause the patient to suffer , but only a little bit less than before .
and if you &apos;ve done that for a few minutes , you &apos;ve done the fact that the living self of patient a is worse off , and you &apos;ve done a much better job of remembering yourself from patient a , because now you &apos;ve given patient a a better story about your experience .
here are some of the hamptons .
what is a story about ?
and that &apos;s true of the stories that memory provides us , and it &apos;s true of the stories that we invent .
what a story is about is breakthroughs , significant moments , and ends .
end is very , very important , and in this case , the end dominated .
well , the living self lives its life continuously .
it has moments of life , one by one .
and you ask , what happens to these moments ?
and the answer is really simple . they &apos;re lost forever .
i mean , most of the moments of our lives -- and i &apos;ve calculated this -- you know , the psychological present is true for about three seconds , which means , you know , there are about 600 million of them in a life . there &apos;s about 600,000 in a month , most of them don &apos;t leave any trace .
most of you are completely ignored by the memory itself .
very expensive real estate .
and yet , you get the impression that you should count that what happens during those moments of life is our lives .
it &apos;s the limited resource that we use while we &apos;re in this world .
and how we use it would seem to be important , but that &apos;s not the story that keeps the memory for ourselves .
so we have the memory itself and the living self , and they &apos;re really quite different .
the biggest difference between them is the transition with time .
from the perspective of the living self , if you have a vacation , and the second week is just as good as the first one , the two-week vacation is twice as good as the one-week vacation .
that &apos;s not how it works at all for the memory itself .
for the memory of yourself , a two-week vacation is hardly better than the one week vacation , because there are no new memories added .
they didn &apos;t change the story .
and in this way , time is actually the critical variable that distinguishes a memory of a self from a living self , and time has very little impact on this story .
beautiful beach . great day . you have it all for yourself .
now , the memory itself makes more than remembering and telling stories .
it &apos;s actually the one that makes decisions , because if you have a patient who , say , had two gut mirrors in two different surgeons , and decides which one to choose , it &apos;s the one who chooses the memory that &apos;s less bad , and that &apos;s the surgeon who &apos;s going to be selected .
the living self has no voice in that choice .
in fact , we don &apos;t choose between experience . we choose between memories of experiences .
and even when we think about the future , we don &apos;t usually think of our future as experiences .
we think about our future as foreseen memories .
and basically , you can look at this , you know , as a tyranny of memory itself , and you can think of the memory itself as one that sort of sucks the living self through experiences that the living self doesn &apos;t need .
i have the impression that when we make vacation , it &apos;s very often the case , which means we make vacation largely in the service of remembering ourselves .
and that &apos;s a little hard to justify , i think .
i mean , how much do we consume from our memories ?
this is a people who are not cognitively different from the colors blue and green , because the sky scene is equated to the forest that people depend on .
what could be better ? &quot; damn &quot; the man thinks , &quot; it &apos;s august .
this is one of the explanations that is given to the dominance of the memory itself .
and when i think about it , i think of a vacation that we did a few years ago in antarctica , which was clearly the best vacation i &apos;ve ever had , and i think relatively often about how much i think of other vacations .
and i probably , from my memories of this three-week journey , i would say , for about 25 minutes in the last four years .
now , if i had ever opened the folder with the 600 images in it , i would have spent another hour .
well , that &apos;s three weeks , and that &apos;s at least one and a half hours .
there seems to be an disagreement .
now , i may be a little extreme , you know , in how little appetite i have on the toes of memories , but even if you make more of them , there &apos;s a real question . why do we give memories so much weight in the course of the weight that we give experience ?
so i want you to think about a thought experiment .
imagine your next vacation , you know , at the end of the vacation , all of your images are being destroyed , and you get an amnesiac drug , so you &apos;re not going to remember anything .
well , would you choose the same vacation ?
everybody in my manhattan neighborhood is gone .
and if you were to choose a different vacation , there &apos;s a conflict between your two types of self , and you have to think about how you decide this conflict , and it &apos;s really not obvious at all , because if you think about time , you get an answer , and if you think about memories , you might get a different answer .
why we chose the vacation that we choose is a problem that we face with a choice between the two types of self .
now , the two types of self are recording two terms of happiness .
there are actually two concepts of happiness that we can apply , one per person .
so you can ask : how happy is the living self ?
and then you would ask : how happy are the moments in the life of the living self ?
and they &apos;re all -- happiness for moments is a pretty complicated process .
what are the emotions that can be measured ?
and , by the way , we are now able to get a pretty good idea of the happiness of the living self over time .
if you ask about the happiness of remembering yourself , it &apos;s a very different thing .
i could park right in front of my house . &quot;
that &apos;s not about how happy a person lives .
it &apos;s about how happy or pleased the person is when they think about their lives .
very different term .
anyone who is not different from these terms is going to mask the exploration of happiness , and i &apos;m part of a lot of researchers on well-being , who have been messing up the exploration of happiness for a long time in this particular way .
the distinction between the happiness of the living self and the satisfaction of the memory self has been recognized in the last few years , and now you &apos;re trying to measure the two separate .
the gallup organization has a global survey where more than half a million people have been asked about what they think about their lives and what their experiences are , and there have been other efforts in the direction .
so in the last few years , we &apos;ve started to learn about the happiness of the two types of self .
and the main lesson that i think we &apos;ve learned is that they &apos;re really different .
you can know how happy someone is with their life , and that really doesn &apos;t teach them much about how happy they live and vice versa .
just to give you an idea of correlation , the correlation is about .5 .
and he &apos;s going to spend two weeks following the thought that he &apos;s missed the ability to have a great parking lot day after day .
what that means is that if you met someone , and you would tell them , oh , his father is a two-meter man , how much would you know about his size ?
well , you would know something about its size , but there &apos;s a lot of uncertainty .
they have so much uncertainty .
if i tell you that somebody has put their lives in the order of eight on a scale of 10 , they have a lot of uncertainty about how happy they are with their living selves .
so the correlation is low .
we know something about what determines the happiness of happiness itself .
we know money is very important , goals are very important .
we know that happiness is mostly about being satisfied with people we like to spend time with people we like .
there are other pleasures , but that &apos;s dominant .
so if you want to maximize the happiness of the two types of self , you will end up doing very different things .
oppertunity costs reduce the happiness that we get through our choice , even though what we &apos;ve chosen is fantastic .
the conclusion from what i said here is that we really shouldn &apos;t think of happiness as a replacement for well-being .
it &apos;s a completely different term .
now , very briefly , another reason that we can &apos;t clearly think about happiness is that we don &apos;t pay attention to the same things when we think about life , and when we actually live .
so if you ask the simple question of how happy people in california are , you &apos;re not going to get the correct answer .
if you ask that question , you think that people in california need to be happier if they live , say , in ohio .
and what happens is that when you think about life in california , you think about the difference between california and other places , and that difference is , say , in climate .
well , it turns out that climate is not very important for the living self , and it &apos;s not even very important for the thoughtful self that decides how happy people are .
but now , because the thoughtful self is responsible , you can end up -- some people could move to california at the end .
and it &apos;s kind of interesting to track what happens to people who are moving to california in hope to be happier .
now , your heritage self is not going to be happier .
and the more possibilities there are to select , the more attractive properties of this choice are taken into account of the oppertunity cost .
we know that .
but one thing is going to happen . you &apos;re going to think you &apos;re happier , because if you think about it , you &apos;re going to be reminded of how terrible the weather was in ohio , and you &apos;re going to feel that you made the right decision .
it &apos;s very difficult to think about well-being , and i hope i &apos;ve given you an idea of how difficult it is .
thank you .
thank you . i have a question for you .
thank you .
now , when we were talking about telephone a couple of weeks ago , they told me that there was a pretty interesting result that came out of this gallup poll .
is that something you can participate in , because you have a couple of minutes left ?
daniel kahneman : sure .
i think the most interesting thing we found in the gallup poll is a number that we absolutely didn &apos;t expect to find .
here &apos;s another example .
we found this in terms of the happiness of the living self .
when we looked at how feelings vary with income .
and it turns out that , under an income of 60,000 dollars a year , for americans , and that &apos;s a very large sample of americans , about 600,000 , but it &apos;s a big representative sample , under an income of 600,000 dollars a year .
60,000 .
dk : 60,000 .
60,000 dollars a year , people are unhappy , and they become increasingly unhappy as they get poorer .
we get an absolutely flat line about that .
i mean , i rarely saw flat lines .
what happens is , obviously , money doesn &apos;t raise you an experience happiness , but it certainly makes you miserable , and we can measure that misery very , very clearly .
in the spirit of the other self , the memory itself , you get a different story .
now , this cartoon makes some statements .
the more money you make , the happier you are .
that &apos;s not true of emotions .
but danny , in the entire american aspiration , is about life , freedom , the pursuit of happiness .
if people took this finding seriously , i mean , it all seems to be upside down , everything we think , for example , in terms of tax policy and so on .
is there a chance that politicians , that the country , in general , would take a finance like the seriousness and make it based on politics ?
dk : you know , i think there &apos;s recognition for the role of happiness research in politics .
recognition will be slow in the united states , no question , but in the united kingdom , it &apos;s happening right now , and in other countries it &apos;s happening .
people are trying to recognize that they should think about happiness when they think about politics .
it will take a while , and people will discuss whether they want to explore experience happiness , or whether they want to explore life grades , so we have to have this discussion pretty soon .
how to increase happiness is very different from how you think , and whether you think about the memory itself , or whether you think about the living self .
he makes a statement about living now , and maybe about doing things slowly .
that &apos;s going to affect politics , i think , in the next few years .
in the united states , you &apos;re struggling to measure the experience happiness of the population .
that will , i think , be part of the national statistics in the next decade or two .
well , it seems to me that this topic is going to be , or at least the most interesting political debate to pursue over the next few years .
thank you for the invention of behavioral economics .
thank you , danny kahneman .
i &apos;m jane mcgonigal . i design computer games .
i &apos;ve been developing online games for 10 years now , and my goal for the next decade is to make it as easy to save the world in reality as it is to save in online games .
i have a plan for this . i want to convince more people , including all of them , to spend more time playing bigger and more great games .
right now we spend three billion hours a week playing online .
but one important point that he makes is that whenever you choose to do one thing , you decide not to do other things .
some of you might think , &quot; that &apos;s a lot of time for games . &quot;
maybe a little too much time when you think about how many problems we have to solve in the real world .
but actually , my research at the institute for the future is exactly the opposite .
three billion hours a week is not nearly enough to solve the world &apos;s most urgent problems .
in fact , i &apos;m convinced that if we want to survive the next century on this planet , we have to dramatically increase that time .
i calculated that the time it took is 21 billion hours per week of play .
this may seem a little bit counterintuitive , so i repeat it so that it can work : if we want to solve problems like hunger , poverty , climate change , global conflicts and obesity , i think we need to try to play online for at least 21 billion hours a week to the end of the next decade .
no , i &apos;m really serious .
why ? this picture describes why i think games are so essential to the survival of the human species in the future . seriously .
this is a portrait of the photographer phil toledano .
they have a strange language and a marriage rule called linguistic exogamy : you have to marry someone who speaks a different language .
and these other things may have a lot of attractive properties , and it will be what they &apos;re doing less attractive .
he wanted to capture the feelings when he was playing , so he built a camera in front of the players .
this is one of the classic expressions of play .
if you &apos;re not a player , maybe some of the nuances in this picture are going to escape you .
you probably see this sense of urgency , a little bit of fear , but also external concentration , very deep into solving a really difficult problem .
if you &apos;re also playing , you see some nuances here that are zoomed up , and the mouth is a sign of optimism , and the eyebrows are surprising .
this is a player standing on the edge of a so-called epic victory .
oh , you know that . ok . fine . so we have some players here .
an epic victory is a result that is so utterly positive that they didn &apos;t know that it was possible at all .
it was almost beyond the imagination .
and when they get to it , they &apos;re shocked that they &apos;re actually capable of doing this . this is an epic victory .
third , escalation of expectations .
this player is right in front of an epic victory .
and this is what we need to see on millions of faces of problem-solving around the world , if we attack the barriers of the next century , the face of those who are on the verge of all the vienna .
well , unfortunately , we see this face in real life when we face difficult problems .
i call it the &quot; in life i &apos;m bad &quot; face . and it &apos;s actually my face , you see ? yes ? ok .
that &apos;s me making the &quot; in life i &apos;m bad &quot; face .
this is a graffiti in my former home in berkeley , california , where i studied in my ph.d. why we &apos;re better at play than in real life .
this is a problem that many players have .
we think that we &apos;re not as good in reality as we do in games .
and i don &apos;t just mean less successfully , even though that &apos;s part of it .
we do more in games . i mean well in the context of motivation to do something significant , inspired to collaborate with each other .
this hit me when i wanted to exchange my jeans .
when we &apos;re in a game world , i think that many of us are turning into our best version , at any given time and instantly helpful to try to solve the problem , as long as we need it , again , to try to get it wrong .
and in reality , when we fail , when we hit obstacles , we often feel different .
we feel overwhelmed . we feel defeated . we feel threatened , maybe depressed , frustrated or cynical .
we never have these feelings when we play games , they just don &apos;t exist in games .
and that &apos;s what i wanted to study as a ph.d. student .
why is it impossible in games to think that you couldn &apos;t just do anything ?
how can we transfer these feelings from play into reality ?
so i looked at games like world of warcraft , which provide the ideal environment to collaborative problem solving .
and i &apos;ve found some things that make epic victories possible in online worlds .
so , first of all , when you get into one of these online games , especially at world of warcraft , there are a lot of different characters who are willing to trust you a global mission , immediately .
i wear jeans , almost all the time .
but not just any mission , but a mission that fits perfectly to your current level in the game , right ?
so they can do that .
they never get a task that they can &apos;t solve .
but always at the edge of their capabilities , so they have to be hard , but there &apos;s no unemployment in the world of warcraft .
you don &apos;t sit around and spin . there &apos;s always something important to do .
and there are , in fact , staff .
wherever they go , hundreds of thousands of people working with them to finish their epic mission .
we don &apos;t have that very simple in real life , that feeling that if you have a fingertip , you have to have a staff .
and also , there &apos;s this epic story , this inspiring story of why we are there and what we have to do .
then we get all this positive feedback .
and there was a time when there was only jeans in a way , and they bought them , and they fed badly , they were incredibly uncomfortable , and if they carried them long enough , and they washed enough , they started to feel ok .
you &apos;ve heard about &quot; level up &quot; and &quot; + 1 strength , &quot; or &quot; + 1 intelligence . &quot;
this constant feedback doesn &apos;t exist in real life .
when i leave this stage , i don &apos;t have to speak , + 1 , and + one crazy idea , + 20 crazy idea .
i don &apos;t get that feedback in real life .
so , the problem with the cooperative online worlds like world of warcraft is that it &apos;s so satisfying to stand on the edge of an epic victory at any time that we prefer to spend our time in these game worlds .
they &apos;re just better than reality .
to this day , all the world of warcrafts have spent 5.93 million years solving the virtual problems of azeroth .
that &apos;s not necessarily a bad thing .
it may sound bad .
but to put it in context , 5.93 million years ago , our first primate ancestors started to go upright .
so , to buy new jeans after many years of wearing the old , and i said , &quot; i &apos;d like to have a couple of jeans , here &apos;s my size . &quot;
so the first exciting primate .
ok , so when we talk about how much time we spend playing right now , it just makes sense when you think about time in terms of the scale of human development , which is extraordinary .
but it &apos;s also appropriate , because it turns out that by using this whole time on play , we &apos;re actually changing what we &apos;re capable of as people .
we develop into collaborative , heartfelt creatures .
that &apos;s the truth . that &apos;s what i believe .
look at this interesting statistic that was published recently by a researcher at carnegie mellon university : the average young person from today in a country with strong play culture spends 10,000 hours with online play to the 21st year .
so 10,000 hours is a very interesting number for two reasons .
first of all , for kids in the united states , 10,080 hours is the exact total of what they spend in school , from the fifth grade to the degree of high school -- if you never miss .
so here we have a complete parallel education , where young people learn as much as what it means to be a good player , like anything else they learn in school .
and maybe some of you have read the new book by malcolm gladwell , &quot; flying over . &quot;
and the salesman said , &quot; do you want snake , easy to attract , or long ?
so you know his theory of success , the theory of success in the 10,000 hours .
it &apos;s based on the great research of cognitive science , that if we spend 10,000 hours studying any subject to the 21st year , we will become masters in it .
we &apos;re getting so good at doing whatever the most important people in the world are doing .
so what we have here is a full generation of young people who are master players .
so the big question is , &quot; what exactly are players mastery ? &quot;
because if we could figure that out , we would have , sort of , unprecedented human potential .
so many people now in the world who spend at least an hour a day playing online games .
these are our master players . 500 million people who are extraordinarily good at something .
and in the next decade , we have another billion players who are extraordinarily good at whatever .
if you haven &apos;t heard it yet .
do you want buttons or fans ? do you want to wash stone or acid ?
the game industry develops consoles that save energy and work on mobile devices , rather than the broadband internet , so that players around the world , especially in india , china , brazil , can play online .
you expect an extra billion players in the next decade .
so we have 1.5 billion players in total .
so i started thinking about what it is that these games make us master .
here are the four things i found . first of all , urgency optimism .
ok , think of this as extreme self-motivation .
dringlity optimism is the desire to do something immediately , to master a hurdle , along with the belief that we have a green hope for success .
players always believe that an epic victory is possible , and it &apos;s always worth trying to do it , and that &apos;s the same .
players don &apos;t sit around .
players are champions in spider of social nets .
do you want to holes jeans ?
there are a lot of interesting studies that show that we like people more after we &apos;ve played with them , even if they &apos;ve defeated us .
the reason for that is that it requires a lot of trust to play a game with someone .
we trust that someone spends time with us that the rules are held in , that we have the same goal and we stay there until the end of the game .
so playing together enables the growing of ties , trust and each other .
as a result , we build stronger social relationships .
happy productivity . fantastic !
you know , there &apos;s a reason why the average word of warcrafts players play 22 hours a week , as a part-time job .
the reason is that when we play , we &apos;re actually happier at working hard than when we relax or don &apos;t do anything .
we know that we are optimally functioning as human beings when we do hard , significant work .
and players are always willing to work hard when they get the right task .
would you like to cut far , keen , blah blah , blah ... &quot; and so on , he said .
and finally , epic meaning .
players love to become part of the awe area missions of planetary extent .
here &apos;s a backbone formation to bring this into the right light , and you know all the wikipedia , the largest wiki in the world .
the second largest wiki in the world , with almost 80,000 entries , is the world of warcraft wiki .
five million people use it every month .
they &apos;ve assembled more information about the world of warcraft on the internet than any other subject in any other wiki in the world .
they create an epic story .
they create an epic source of knowledge about the world of warcraft .
ok , so these are four superpowers that lead to a single result . players are super-powerful , hopeful individuals .
it &apos;s people who believe that as individuals , they can change the world .
all of this is rooted in the mythological past , and the strange thing about these big houses , where , due to the mischief , you &apos;re talking six or seven languages , but you never hear anyone who learns a language .
my jaw was down , and after i recovered , i said , &quot; i would like to have the kind that used to be the only species . &quot;
and the only problem is that you think you can change the virtual worlds , but not the real one .
that &apos;s the problem i &apos;m trying to solve .
edward castronova is a economist .
his work is brilliant . he studies why people spend so much time , energy and money in online worlds .
and he says , &quot; we &apos;re going to witness not less than a mass migration in virtual worlds and online game environments . &quot;
and this is from an economist . so he &apos;s logical .
and he says ...
not like me -- i develop games , i &apos;m a little bit overwhelming .
so he says this actually makes sense , because players can do more in online worlds than in real life .
they can tap into more powerful social ties than they do in real life . they get more feedback and rewards in play than they do in real life .
he had no idea what that was , so i spent an hour trying all these damn jeans , and i forgot the business -- and i say the truth -- with the best passing jeans i &apos;ve ever had .
so , he says , it &apos;s totally logical right now that players spend more time in the virtual world than they do in the real world .
i &apos;ll just agree , that &apos;s logical .
but it &apos;s definitely not an optimal situation .
we need to start turning the real world into a game .
my inspiration comes from an event that &apos;s 2,500 years behind .
there are these ancient cubes made out of sheep boxes . you know ?
before these fantastic game controllers , there were sheep cords .
and these were the first people to develop toys .
and if you &apos;re familiar with the work of the ancient greek historian herodotus , you may know this story , the story of how and why games were invented .
now , according to herodotus , games were invented in the kingdom of lydia during a famine .
i had it better . all this choice allowed me to have it better .
there was such a great famine that the king of lydia decided to have a crazy idea .
people were suffering . people were fighting .
it was an extreme situation . you needed an extreme solution .
so they invented , according to herodotus , the cubic game , and they agreed a national strategy , and one day you would eat , and the next day you would play .
and they would be so deep into the cubic game , because games are so fascinating and surrounding us with satisfying , happy productivity that they would forget that there was nothing to eat .
and then the next day , you would play , and the next day you would eat .
and according to herodotus , they survived this famine for 18 years by eating one day and playing the next one .
likewise , i think , we &apos;re going to use games today .
we use games to escape the suffering of the real world .
we put in games to get rid of everything that doesn &apos;t work in the real world , all that &apos;s not satisfying in real life , and we get what we need from play .
but i felt worse .
but that doesn &apos;t have to be the end .
that &apos;s the exciting thing .
according to herodotus , after 18 years , the famine didn &apos;t get better , so the king decided to use a final cubicle game .
they divided the kingdom into two halves .
they played a cubicle game , and the winners were allowed to break up an epic adventure .
they left lydia and they went looking for a new home , and they just left as many people as there were food to survive , and they were looking for the rest of an area where they could thrive .
that sounds crazy , right ?
but the latest dna evidence shows that the etrusers who later formed the roman empire have the same dna as the old lydians .
so scientists recently realized that herodotus &apos; crazy story was actually true .
and geologists found evidence of a global cooling that took almost 20 years to explain the famine .
why ? i wrote a whole book to try and explain it to myself .
so this crazy story could be true .
maybe they actually saved their people by playing , by flying themselves into games for 18 years , and then having this introduction and learning so much about playing with each other that they saved the entire civilization .
so , we can .
we &apos;ve been playing warcraft since 1994 .
this was the first strategy game in real time of the world of warcraft series . this was 16 years ago .
they &apos;ve been playing cubic games for 18 years , and we &apos;ve been playing warcraft for 16 years .
i &apos;m saying we &apos;re ready for our own epic game .
so , they sent half their civilization to look for a new world , so i &apos;m going to take my 21 billion hours a week .
we should be talking about the fact that half of us spend an hour a day playing , until we solved the problems of the real world .
i know you &apos;re going to ask , &quot; how do we solve problems of the real world in games ? &quot; and that &apos;s exactly the question that i &apos;ve dedicated my work to the institute in the last few years to the future ?
the reason i felt worse was because of all these available possibilities , my expectations for what a good couple of jeans are going up .
we have this banner in our office in palo alto , and it expresses how we should understand the future .
we don &apos;t want to try to say the future before .
what we want is to create the future .
we want to imagine the best possible result , and then we empower people to implement this idea into reality .
we imagine epic victories , and we give people the opportunity to reach them .
i &apos;m going to show you very quickly three games that i designed to try to create people &apos;s epic victories in their own future .
this is &quot; world without oil . &quot;
the game is from 2007 .
it &apos;s an online game where you have to overcome an oil scarcity .
i had very low expectations . i had no concrete expectations when they were just in one way .
we &apos;ve tested this game with 1,700 players in 2007 , and we &apos;ve been accompaniing them since the last three years .
and i can tell you , it was a transformative experience .
nobody wants to change their lives because it &apos;s good for the environment or because we should .
but if you &apos;re in an epic adventure and you say , &quot; we &apos;re going to run out of oil . &quot;
this is a fascinating adventure that you go to .
find out how they would survive . most of our players have kept the habits in the game .
so for the next world-class game , we &apos;ve made a bigger , higher goal than just oil scarcity .
we &apos;ve developed the game &quot; superstruct &quot; at the institute of the future .
the starting point is to calculate a supercomputer that people only have 23 years left on the planet .
this supercomputer is called &quot; global mortality sensitivity system , &quot; of course .
when they came in 100 species , damn , one of them should have been perfect .
the call to players to sign up , we &apos;ve created almost like a &quot; jerry bruckheimer &quot; movie .
you know jerry bruckheimer movies , where there is the &quot; dream-team , &quot; and you have the astronauts , the scientists , the ex-strings , and only together you can save the world .
but in our game , instead of just five people , let &apos;s say everybody is in the dream-team , and our job is to create the future for energy , food , health , security and the future of social justice .
8,000 players played the game for eight weeks .
they found 500 incredibly creative solutions that they can read when they google &quot; superstruct . &quot;
and the last game we bring out on march 3th , which is a game in collaboration with the world bank .
if you finish the game , you get the award from the world bank , &quot; social switch , &quot; in 2010 .
we work with universities all over sub-saharan africa , and we invite them to learn social redesign .
we have a comic book . we have &quot; level high &quot; for local understanding , knowledge networks , sustainability , vision and ingenuity .
i want to invite you all to share this game with young people all over the world , especially in developing areas that benefit from imagining their own social enterprises to save the world .
and what i got was good , but it wasn &apos;t perfect .
i &apos;m going to finish .
i want to ask you something .
what do you think happens next ?
we have all these fantastic players , we have games that show us what we can do , but we haven &apos;t saved the real world yet .
well , i hope you &apos;ll agree that players are human resources that we can use to work in real life , and that games have a big meaning for change .
we have all these superpowers , happy productivity , the ability to make tight social networks , urgency optimism , and the desire for epic importance .
i really hope that we play significant games together to survive another century on this planet .
and i hope you &apos;ll design and play with me like this .
if i look in the next decade , i &apos;m sure two things : that we can create any imaginable future , and we can play all sorts of games .
so i say , let the world change games start !
and so i compared what i had gotten to what i expected , and what i had was disappointing compared to what i expected .
thank you .
i &apos;d like to tell you something that i noticed a few months ago writing an article for italian wired .
i &apos;ve always picked up my synonymous dictionary when i was writing , but i &apos;ve been done with the process of texting , and i noticed that i &apos;ve never looked up in my life what the word &quot; disabled &quot; really means .
i &apos;ll read you the entry .
&quot; disabled , &quot; adjectively : &quot; curve , helpless , useless , destroyed , deceased , mutilated , wounded , decorated , stored , disconnected , disconnected , served , smoked , impotent , caputed , paralyzed , handicapt senil , age-weak , pulled out of traffic , refined , made , broken , counted , injured , useless and weak .
antonym : healthy , strong , powerful . &quot;
i read this list to a friend , and i first laughed , and it was so ridiculous , but i only came to &quot; oriented , &quot; and i couldn &apos;t talk , and i had to stop reading , and i had to start collecting myself after this flooding wordstream , and the emotional shock associated with it .
of course , this was a franchised , old synonymous dictionary , and i just thought that the copy had to be pretty old .
but in fact , it was a copy in the early &apos; 80s , when i was just starting elementary school and starting to build and shape my self-image outside of my family environment in terms of other kids and the rest of the world around me .
and thank god i didn &apos;t use a synonymous dictionary at the time .
you just listen , and then you start talking .
adding possibilities to people &apos;s lives is inevitably increasing the expectations that people have about how well these possibilities will be .
if i took this post seriously , i would be born into a world that someone like me would perceive as a person whose life can &apos;t be positive in any way , but today i will be celebrated for the opportunities and adventures that i &apos;ve experienced .
so i immediately called up the 2009 online issue , and i expected to find a more appealing contribution here .
here &apos;s the updated version of this entry .
unfortunately , it &apos;s not much better .
in particular , the last two words under near antonyms are shaking me &quot; all &quot; and &quot; healthy . &quot;
but it &apos;s not just about the words .
it &apos;s what we think about the people we describe with these words .
it &apos;s about the values that are in these words , and how we construct these values .
our language affects our thinking and how we see the world and the people around us .
many ancient societies , including the greeks and the roman , have really believed that the language of an escape has a great force because what you &apos;re talking about is also manifest .
and this leads to less happiness with the results , even though the results are good .
so , what do we actually want to manifest -- a disabled person or a powerful person ?
already , to call a human being mindlessly as a child could be enough to restrict them and to give them ideas .
wouldn &apos;t it be more beautiful to open your doors ?
a person who opened doors for me was my pediatrician at the a.i. dupont institute in wilmington in delaware .
it &apos;s called dr. pizzutillo . it &apos;s a italo american whose name , as you can imagine , most americans couldn &apos;t speak correctly . so he was always called dr. p.
and dr. p. always wore very colorful flies and was just done for the work with kids .
i found the time i spent in this hospital , just great -- except for my physiotherapy .
i had to do individual exercises seemingly infinitely repeatedly with these thick , elastic bands -- in different colors -- you know that to build my leg muscles , and i hated these benches more than anything else . i hated them . i flooded them . i hated them .
and imagine i even negotiated as a five-year-old child with dr. p. , trying to stop these practices , naturally without success .
and one day he was watching me in one of my exercises -- these practices were just tiring and gracefully -- and he said to me , &quot; wow , aimee , you &apos;re such a strong , powerful and young girl , you &apos;re going to shatter one day .
no one in the world of marketing knows this because , if you did , you all don &apos;t know what this is all about .
and if you can do it , i &apos;ll give you a hundred dollars . &quot;
this was , of course , just a simple trick by dr. p. , so that i do the exercises that i didn &apos;t want to do with the prospect that there was a five-year-old girl in the hospital in the second floor , but he actually got me to see my daily practice horror with new eyes , and so it became a new and promising experience .
and i wonder today how much his vision of me as a strong and powerful young girl shaped my self-image , and i could think of myself as one of nature of strong , powerful and atlethal human beings .
this is just one example of many , how adults in power positions can stimulate the imagination of a child .
but as the examples of the synonymous dictionaries have already quoted , our language doesn &apos;t allow us to imagine something that we would all wish : to allow anyone to think of themselves as powerful people .
our language depends on the social changes that have been triggered in many cases by a technological change .
of course , from the medical point of view , you can say that my legs , the laser surgery for visually impaired , knee joints from titan and artificial hip joints for aging bodies , which allow people to really use all of their possibilities and develop beyond the limits that their natural destiny has set to develop , not to speak of social networking platforms , enable people to have their own identity , define themselves in their own way , and orient to groups around the world that they choose themselves .
so maybe that technological change is more clear than ever , that there has always been a different truth , which is that every human being can give something very special and very powerful to society , and that the human ability to adapt is our biggest plus .
the human ability to adapt -- this is an interesting story , because people ask me over and over again to tell me how to deal with widrills , and i &apos;m going to tell you something : this sentence never fits for me , and i &apos;ve always felt very uncomfortable with answering the questions of people , and i think , gradually , i understand why .
this phrase of dealing with widrities lives on the idea that success or happiness depends on mastering a challenge without being coined by the experience associated with it , as if my life had been so successful , because i could avoid the possible falling of a life with a prosthetic , or whatever people perceive me with my disability .
the truth is more like this .
but the truth is that we are changing . of course , we are shaped by the challenge , whether it &apos;s physical , emotional or even both .
and i say that &apos;s good .
widrifts are not an obstacle that we need to be able to fix to deal with our lives better .
widrills just belong to our lives .
and i tend to think of widrities as my shadow .
sometimes i realize that it &apos;s very present , sometimes it &apos;s hardly seen , but it &apos;s constantly with me .
and i don &apos;t want to make a difference in this , or the severe of the fight of a human .
there are widrills and challenges in life , and they &apos;re just all-real , and each person is dealing with it differently , but the question is not whether or not we can deal with widrities , but how we deal with it .
so , we &apos;re not just responsible for preserving the people we love to be fatal , but we &apos;re also preparing them to do well .
and we don &apos;t like our kids if we give them the feeling that they can &apos;t adapt .
the reason is that it used to be better than anything worse than anything worse , it was possible for people to have experiences that were a pleasant surprise .
you have to separate two things apart : the medical fact of being amputated and , for the other , the social opinion of whether i &apos;m disabled or not .
and to be honest , the only real and remaining disability that i had to deal with is that the world is constantly thinking that it could describe me with these definitions .
in our desire to protect the people who are at heart and tell them the cold , hard truth about their medical forecast , or even to provide a projection for quality of life that they &apos;re expecting , we have to pay attention to that we don &apos;t actually have the basis for someone being disabled .
maybe the current concept , which is just looking at what &apos;s broken in a broken , and how we fix that , for each one , is a greater disability than pathology itself .
if we &apos;re not treating a human being , and not perceiving and recognizing all of his forces and possibilities , we &apos;re able to create , in addition to the natural struggle that you might have to lead , another disease .
we degrade a person who has value for our society .
so we have to look beyond the patology and focus on all the domain of human possibilities .
but most importantly , there is a connection between the perception of our inadequacy and our great invention .
we should not devalue or deny these challenging times , we should not try to avoid them , nor should we turn them under the carpet , but it &apos;s about recognizing opportunities in the widrives .
i think it &apos;s more about making it clear that we don &apos;t necessarily have to overcome widrities , but that we &apos;re open to embrace them , to grab them on the shelf , to even use a fight expression , and maybe even dance with it .
today , in the world that we live in -- we wealthy , industrialized citizens , with perfection as an expectation -- the best thing you can hope for is things as good as you expect them to do .
and maybe we &apos;re able to think of widrities as something natural , coherent and useful , and we don &apos;t feel that way through their presence .
this year , we celebrate the 200th anniversary of charles darwin , and when he wrote about evolution 150 years ago , darwin , in my eyes , pointed to something very true in the human character .
i would rewrite it this way : not surviving the most powerful of its species , and not the most intelligent of its species , but the one that can adapt the best way to change .
conflict creates creativity .
not just from darwin &apos;s work , we know that the ability of man to survive and flourish is determined by the fight of the human mind to transform through conflict .
so , again , change and adaptation are the greatest skills of human beings .
and maybe we don &apos;t know what wood we &apos;re cut from when we &apos;re really being tested .
maybe that &apos;s exactly what the meaning of widrills , a perception of the ich , a sense of our own power .
we can give ourselves something like this .
we can give a new meaning to widrifts that go beyond hard times .
they &apos;re never going to be pleasant because their expectations , my expectations , are high .
maybe we can see widrifts as a change .
widrifts are a change that we haven &apos;t yet adapted to .
i think the biggest damage that we &apos;ve added ourselves is to believe that we should be normal .
let &apos;s face it -- who &apos;s normal ?
there &apos;s no normal .
there &apos;s the usual . the typical one . but not the normal one , and would you really want to know this poor , gray person , if they really were there ?
i think , rather than not .
it would be great if we could exchange this paradigm of normality against another one of the possibilities , or the strength , to even make it a little bit more dangerous , and we can release the forces of very many children , and invite them to bring their special and valuable skills into society .
anthropolgen found that we have always challenged people from the members of our society : to be useful and to contribute .
there &apos;s evidence that the neanderthals , 60,000 years ago , had older people and people with severe physical injuries , and that might have happened because the life experience of these people &apos;s survival was valuable for society .
the secret to happiness -- what you &apos;ve all come to -- the secret to happiness is low expectations .
they didn &apos;t think of these people as broken and useless ; they were treated as something special and valuable .
a couple of years ago , i went to the city where i grew up in a food market in that red zone in the northeast of pennsylvania , and i was standing there in front of a scheffel tomato .
it was summer , and i had shorts .
and i hear a guy behind me say , &quot; well , that &apos;s not aimee mullins . &quot;
and i turn around and i see this older man , and i had no idea who he is .
and i said , &quot; sorry , sir , we know ourselves ? i can &apos;t remember you . &quot;
and he said , &quot; well , you can barely remember me .
when i first saw her , i pulled her out of her mother &apos;s belly . &quot;
oh , that one .
and of course , it did click .
i want to say -- a short autobiographical moment -- that i &apos;m married to a woman , and she &apos;s really wonderful .
this was dr. kean , a man who i only knew from narratives of my mother about this day , because , of course , i was , quite typical , late in my birthday , two weeks .
my mother &apos;s doctor for pranatal diagnostics was on vacation , and so my parents didn &apos;t know the man who brought me to the world at all .
and because i was born without the legs , and my feet had been focused on them , and i only had a few toes on this and a few toes on the other foot , he was the bridge , that stranger had to get the bad news .
he said to me , &quot; i had to tell your parents that you would never walk , and never be as moving as other kids , or that you could never live an independent life , and they just punished me . &quot;
what i found really extraordinary is that he collected newspaper clips of my entire childhood , whether i &apos;d won a letter competition in the second grade , whether i was on the path finders in parade , whether i was on my scholarship or one of my athletic victories , and he was using these clips to teach his students , medical students from hahneman medical school and the hershey medical school .
and he called this part of his course the x factor , the potential of the human will .
you can &apos;t just emphasize enough how critical this factor can be for the quality of life of a human being .
and dr. kean kept saying , he said , &quot; i &apos;ve learned that kids , if they don &apos;t get something else all the time said , and even if they only get a little bit of support , if you leave children alone , then children can do a lot . &quot;
you see , dr. kean changed his thinking .
he understood that the medical diagnosis , and how someone copies with it , are two different things .
i couldn &apos;t have done better . i didn &apos;t let myself down .
and i also changed my thinking over time , if you had asked me at the age of 15 , would i have swapped my prosthetics against legs of meat and bones , i would not have delayed a second ?
i was desperate to be normal at the time .
if you ask me that today , i &apos;m not so sure .
and that &apos;s because i &apos;ve experienced something with my legs and not despite these experiences .
and maybe that change could happen , because i &apos;ve encountered so many people who have opened doors to me , rather than meeting people who wanted to restrict me , or to give me an idea .
you see , it really only takes one person to demonstrate to you how they can manifest their forces , and they &apos;re through .
if you allow someone to activate their own internal forces -- the human mind is so recommended -- if you can do that , and you can open a door to someone in a critical moment , you &apos;re a very good teacher for these people .
they teach them to open up doors themselves .
the real meaning of the word &quot; educate &quot; is rooted in the word &quot; educe . &quot;
it means to create something that is in one is to tickle out the potential .
or , one of the most intriguing tribes i &apos;ve ever lived with , the waorani in the northeast of ecuador , an amazing people that was first contacted in 1958 .
but decrease is not always such a bad thing .
again , what potential do we want to call ?
in the &apos; 60s , a case study was done in the u.k. , and then gymnasia was transformed into overall schools .
they call this &quot; streaming trials &quot; in the united states , we call this tracking .
the students are divided after grades .
and the a students are getting harder to test , get better teachers , and so on .
they then , over a three-month-long period , they gave students a &quot; enough &quot; note &quot; very good , &quot; and they were told that they were very smart , and after these three months , they really wrote one .
and of course , it breaks you down to hear the heart , that the other way around the students were told that they were only sufficient .
and it was the same after the three months .
but only those who were still in school -- aside from the students who had missed the school .
the key thing about this study was that the teachers were not refused .
finally , a consequence of buying a bad sitting jeans , if there &apos;s only one way to buy , is that if you &apos;re unhappy , and you wonder why , who &apos;s responsible , the answer is clear . the world is responsible . what could you do ?
the teachers didn &apos;t know that something was changed .
they were just told that they were the one-on-one students , and the students are sufficient with the note , and that &apos;s how they taught them something and treated them .
the only real disability is a broken mind that has been broken , has no more hope . it doesn &apos;t find anything beautiful . it lacks our natural , childhood curiosity , and our innate ability to imagine .
but if we &apos;re able to support the human spirit , to continue to hope for ourselves and other people around them to find themselves beautiful , to be curious and imaginative , then we &apos;re really putting our forces in a positive way .
if a mind has these qualities , we can create a new reality and a new kind of existence .
i want to end with a poem written by a persian poet named hafiz in the 14th century , and that my friend jacques dembois told me about , and the poem is called &quot; the god who only knows four words . &quot; every child knows god , not the god of the names , not the god of the commandments , but the god who only knows four words and repeats them all the time , he just always says , come on , dance with me . &quot;
come on , dance with me . thank you .
how would you want to be better than you are right now ?
suppose i said that through a few changes in your genes , you could have a better memory -- more precise , more precise and faster .
or would you like to be more fitter , stronger , more power .
if hundreds of different kinds of jeans are available , and they buy one that &apos;s disappointing , and they ask why , who is responsible ?
do you want to become more attractive and confident ?
what would it be like to live longer in good health ?
or maybe they &apos;re one of those who has been yearning for more creativity .
which one would you like the most ?
which one would you like to have if it could only have one ?
creativity .
how many people would choose creativity ?
raise your hands . let me see you .
a few . probably about as many as there are creative people here .
that &apos;s very good .
it &apos;s also as clear that the answer to the question is : you .
how many would decide for a good memory ?
just a few more .
how about fitness ?
a few less .
what about longevity ?
ah , the majority . i like to see that as a doctor .
if you could only have one of them , it would be a very different world .
is this all just education ?
or is it possible ?
evolution has been a continuous topic here at the ted conference , but today i want to give you the view of a doctor to the subject .
they could have done better .
the great geneticist in the 20th century , t.g. dobzhansky , who was also a communicator in the russian orthodox church , once wrote a paper called &quot; nothing in biology doesn &apos;t make sense but in the lit of evolution . &quot;
now , if you &apos;re one of those who doesn &apos;t accept the proof of biological evolution , this would be a very good time to turn off your listening device , take your personal communications device -- i &apos;ll give you permission -- and maybe you can take a look at kathryn schultz &apos;s book , which is about being wrong , because nothing else in this talk will make sense for you .
but if you accept biological evolution , consider this : is it just about the past , or is it also about the future ?
is it occasional for others , or is it true to us ?
this is another look at the tree of life .
in this picture , i put a bush as a center of despair in all directions , because if you look at the edges of the tree of life , all the existing species at the tips of these branches have succeeded in evolutionary terms : they have survived ; it has demonstrated its environment of fitness and strength .
the human part of this book , way to the end , is , of course , what we &apos;re most interested in .
we branch from a common ancestor to modern chimpanzees about six or eight million years ago .
in this period of time , there were maybe 20 or 25 different types of hominids .
some of them have come and gone .
with 100 different kinds of jeans in the window , there &apos;s no excuse for mistakes .
we &apos;ve been here for about 130,000 years .
it seems like we &apos;re quite remote from the other parts of the tree of life , but actually , most of the time , the fundamental mechanisms of our cells are pretty much the same .
do you realize that we can use it , and we can engineer the mechanisms of a common bacterium to produce the protein of the human insulin , which is used to treat diabetic ?
this is not like humaninsulin ; this is the same protein that &apos;s chemically undifferentiable from what comes out of the pancreas .
and when we talk about bacteria , do you realize that every one of us in our gut is leading more bacteria than cells in the rest of our bodies ?
maybe 10 times as many .
i mean , do you think when antonio damasio asks for your self-image , do you think about the bacteria ?
our gut is a wonderfully hospitalized environment for these bacteria .
it &apos;s warm , it &apos;s dark , it &apos;s wet , it &apos;s very comfortable .
and you &apos;re going to give them all the nutrients that they could only wish without effort on their own .
and so when people make decisions , and even though the results of the decisions are good , they feel disappointed about it , they accuse themselves .
it &apos;s a really easy way for bacteria to do , with occasional interruptions of the unintended , jeodch forced to get out .
but otherwise , they &apos;re a wonderful environment for these bacteria , just like they &apos;re important for their lives .
they help digestive the essential nutrients , and they protect them against certain diseases .
but what &apos;s going to come in the future ?
are we in a kind of evolutionary balance in a species ?
or are we sure to be something else -- something that might even be better adapted to the environment ?
now let &apos;s take a step back to the time of the big bang 14 billion years ago -- the earth , the solar system , about four and a half billion years ago -- the first signs of creatures , maybe three to four billion years ago on earth -- the first multi-cellular organisms , perhaps as much as 800 or a billion years ago -- and then the human species , which eventually forms in the last 130,000 years .
in this vast unfinished symphony of the universe , life on earth is just briefly measured ; the animal kingdom , like a single stroke ; and human life , a small notebook .
that was us .
this also represents the entertainment value of this talk , so i hope d hatred it to you .
clinical depression exploded in the industrial world in the last generation .
now , when i was a neuling in college , i had my first biology class .
i was fascinated by the elegance and beauty of biology .
i fell in love with the power of evolution , and i found something very fundamental : in most of the existence of life in individual organisms , each cell divides , and all the genetic information of the cell is being passed into both daughter cells .
but at the time that multi-cellular organisms showed up , things started to change .
sexual reproduction comes into the picture .
and most importantly , with the introduction of sexual reproduction that the genome continues , the rest of the body will be deprived .
in fact , you might say that the inevitability of the death of our bodies occurs in the same moment as sexual reproduction .
now i have to say , if i was a college student , i thought , okay , sex / death , sex / death , death for sex -- it seemed pretty reasonable at the time , but with every year , it has come to my increasingly doubt .
i &apos;ve come to understand the feelings of george burns , who did his show in las vegas in the &apos; 90s .
and one night , there &apos;s a knob on his hotel room door .
i think a significant contributor -- not the only one , but a significant contributor to this explosion of depression , and also suicide , is that people have experienced the disappointment because their standards are so high , and then , if they have to explain these experiences themselves , they think it &apos;s their fault .
he opens the door .
there &apos;s a beautiful , spare showgirl dressed in front of him .
she looks at him and says , &quot; i &apos;m here for super-sex . &quot;
&quot; that &apos;s wonderful , &quot; george says , &quot; i &apos;m going to take the soup . &quot;
i came to the realization as a doctor that i was working on a goal that was different from the goal of evolution -- not necessarily contradictory , just different .
i tried to preserve the body .
i wanted to keep us healthy .
i wanted to restore the health of a disease .
i wanted us to live a long and healthy life .
evolution is all about the continuation of the genome to the next generation , adaptation and survival generation after generation .
and so the imagery is that we &apos;re generally better , objectively , and we &apos;re feeling worse .
from an evolutionary point of view , you and i are developing boster rockets to send the genetic question to the next stage of orbit , and then drop into the sea .
i think we would all understand the mood that woody allen expressed when he said , &quot; i don &apos;t want to get immortality through my work .
i want to do it by not dying . &quot;
evolution doesn &apos;t necessarily mean to prefer the longest life .
it doesn &apos;t necessarily prioritize the biggest , the strongest or the fastest , and not even the smartest .
evolution prioritizes the creatures that are best adapted to their environment .
it &apos;s only the test of survival and success .
on the bottom of the ocean , bacteria are there that are thermophil , and by doing so , they survive the hot vapor otherwise , if fish were there , it would be vacuum cooked fish , but they &apos;ve managed to make a habitable environment for themselves .
so , what does this mean when we look back at what happens in evolution , and how we think about the place of people in evolution , and particularly how we look forward to the next phase , i would say there are a number of possibilities .
the first is that we &apos;re not going to evolve .
in 1957 , five missionaries were trying to get in touch and made a severe mistake .
so let me remind you .
we &apos;ve reached a kind of balance .
and the reason it would be for us , first of all , through medicine , to get a lot of genes that would have otherwise been chosen and had been removed from the population .
and second , as a species , we have configured our environment so that we have managed to adapt to us exactly and we adapt to them .
and by the way , we &apos;re wandering and circulating and mixing so much that you can no longer tell us that isolation is necessary for evolution to find statements .
a second possibility is that it will be an evolution of the traditional species , of course , imposed by the forces of nature .
and the argument here is that the wheels of evolution are slow , but they &apos;re inexorable .
and as far as isolation goes , if we colonize distant planets as a species , there will be insulation and the changes of the environment that could produce evolution in a natural way .
but there is a third possibility , a compelling , fascinating and terrifying opportunity .
i call it neo-evolution -- the new development , which is not just natural , but led and decided by us as an individual in the decisions that we make .
now , how could this happen ?
this is the official dogma that we all think is right , completely wrong . it &apos;s not true .
how could it be possible that we could do this ?
let &apos;s first look at the reality that people today , in some cultures , make decisions about their offspring .
they are , in some cultures , the choice to have more men than women .
it &apos;s not necessarily good for society , but it &apos;s what the individual and the family decides .
so think if it wasn &apos;t just possible to choose the sex of your child , but also to make genetic adaptations on your body that would heal and prevent disease .
what if you could make the genetic changes to eliminate diabetes or alzheimer &apos;s disease or eliminating the risk of cancer or stroke ?
would you not want to make these changes in your genes ?
if we look ahead , these kinds of changes will be increasingly possible .
the human genome project started in 1990 , and it took 13 years .
it cost 2.7 billion dollars .
there &apos;s no question that &apos;s a little bit better than none , but it doesn &apos;t follow that more choice is better than a choice .
next year , when it was done in 2004 , they could do the same thing for 20 million dollars in a row or four months .
today , you can complete a sequence of the three billion base pairs of the human genome at a price of about 20,000 dollars and in the room of about a week .
it &apos;s not going to take long for reality to be that there will be the $ 1,000 human genome , and it will be increasingly available for everyone .
a week ago , the national academy of engineering gave the draper prize for francis arnold and wild stemmer , two scientists who developed independent techniques that encourage the natural process of evolution to work faster and lead to desirable proteins in a more efficient way -- which frances arnold calls &quot; direct evolution . &quot;
a few years ago , the laser prize was awarded to the scientist shinya yamanaka for his research , where he took an adult skin cell , a fibroblast , and by manipulating just four genes that induced the cell to bring them back to a pluripotent stem cell -- a cell potentially able to become any cell in your body .
these changes are coming .
the same technology that the human insulin produces in bacteria can make viruses that not only protect from themselves , but can also serve for immunity to other viruses .
whether you believe it or not , it &apos;s an experimental study in the gang with vaccine against influenza that has been grown into the cells of a tobacco plant .
can you imagine something good coming out of tobacco ?
this is all reality today , and in the future , much more will be possible .
there &apos;s a magical amount . i don &apos;t know what it is .
imagine just two other little changes .
you can change the cells in your body , but what if you could change the cells of your descendants ?
what if you could change the sperm and the iron cells or the newly fertilized egg to give their kids a better chance for a healthier life -- eliminate diabetes , remove the hemophily , reduce the risk of cancer ?
who doesn &apos;t want healthier kids ?
and then the analytical technology , the same engine of science that can enable the changes to prevent disease , could also allow us to adopt super-attributes , hyper-capacity -- the better memory .
why don &apos;t the capability of a ken jennings have harbor , especially if you can expand it with the next generation of watson &apos;s machine ?
why not have the fast muscle fibers that will enable you to run faster and longer ?
why no longer live ?
these will be irresistible .
and if we &apos;re in a place where we can pass it to the next generation , and we can adopt the attribute that we want , we will be transformed from alt-style evolution to neo-evolution .
i &apos;m pretty sure that we &apos;ve missed this point for a long time at the selection of our common good .
we &apos;re going to have a process that usually takes perhaps 100,000 years , and we can compress it on a thousand years -- and maybe even in the next 100 years .
these are decisions that your grandchildren have to deal with , or your grandchildren .
are we using these decisions to form a society that &apos;s better , that &apos;s more successful , that &apos;s more friendly ?
or will we selectively choose different attributes that we want to have for some of us and not for others of us ?
are we going to be a society of dielanxious and uniformer , or robuster and more diverse ?
these are the kinds of questions that we &apos;re going to have to face .
and the deepest of all , will we ever be able to develop the wisdom and the wisdom that we will need to make these decisions ?
in the good and in the bad , and before you may think , these decisions will be on us .
thank you .
i want you to imagine something now , a portable robot that gives you overhuman ability , or another that helps wheelchair drivers to stand up and go .
now , as a basic set of questions -- i &apos;m almost finished -- as a basic set of questions , the issue of thinking about this is , what enables all of this choice in the industrialized societies is the material of wealth .
we at berkeley bionics call these robots exoskeletons .
they &apos;re nothing but something that they put on in the morning that will give them extra strength , and that will continue to increase their speed , and that will help them maintain their balance .
that &apos;s actually the real melting of human and machine .
but not only that -- they merge and connect with the universe and other devices out there .
it &apos;s not just a crazy idea .
now to show you what we &apos;re working on , we &apos;re starting to talk about the american soldiers who are on average about 100 pounds on their back , and it &apos;s a question that they &apos;re supposed to carry more equipment .
of course , this leads to some major complications -- spinal injuries , 30 percent of them -- chronic spinal injuries .
so we thought that we would take this challenge and create an exoskeleton that would help deal with this problem .
so let me introduce you to hulc -- or the human universal load carrier .
soldat : with the hulc exoskeleton , i can carry 200 pounds over various terrain for many hours .
there are many places in the world , and we &apos;ve heard about many of them , whose problem is not too big a choice .
his flexible design enables you to go deep , to crawl , to perform highly agile movements .
it feels what i want to do , where i want to go and then increase my strength and persistence .
we are so far , with our industrial partner , to introduce this device , this new exoskeleton in this year .
so it &apos;s true .
now let &apos;s take a look at the wheelchair drivers , something that i &apos;m particularly passionate about .
there are 68 million people who are estimating the world in the wheelchair .
that &apos;s about one percent of the population .
and that &apos;s actually a conservative estimate .
we &apos;re talking a lot about very young people with spinal cord injuries , which were in the flowering time of their lives -- 20s , 30s , 40s -- being hit by destiny , and the wheelchair is the only option .
but it &apos;s also about the aging population , whose number is multiplied .
their problem is that they have too little .
and pretty much the only option -- when it comes to a brain stroke , or other complications -- is the wheelchair .
and so it &apos;s been for 500 years , by the way , since i have to say , very successful introduction .
so we thought we could start writing a whole new chapter in mobility .
now let me introduce you to elegs , which is carried by amanda boxtel , who suffered a spinal cord injury 19 years ago , which has come to the conclusion that it hasn &apos;t been able to run for 19 years and so far .
thank you .
as i said , amanda carries our elephant .
it has sensors .
his completely non-invasive sensors in the crutches , sending signals back to our onboarding computer , which is attached to your back here .
here are also battery-packs , and the motor drive is on their hips , as well as their knee joints , which they move forward in this very smooth and very natural gait .
i was 24 years old , and i was in the best form when a monstrous purple tree was paralyzing me as a ski ride .
so the things i &apos;m talking about are a strange problem of modern , rich , western societies .
in a fraction of a second , i lost every feeling and every movement below my basin .
not long after that , a doctor went into my hospital room , and he said , &quot; amanda , you &apos;ll never go back . &quot;
and that was 19 years ago .
he steel every five tickets of hope from my consciousness .
adaptive technologies have since allowed me to learn how to ski , climb , even ride with my hands .
but nothing was invented that would let me go again , until now .
thank you .
as you can see , we have the technology , we have the platforms to meet and discuss with them .
it &apos;s in our hands , and we have all the potential here to change the life of future generations -- not just for the soldiers , or for amanda here and all the wheelchair drivers , but for everyone .
thank you .
and what &apos;s so frustrating and angry is that steve levitt told you yesterday about how these expensive and hard to install car seats . it &apos;s a waste of money .
at home in new york , i &apos;m a head of the development department of a nonprofit organization called robin hood .
if i &apos;m not fighting poverty , i &apos;m fighting as a help of a fireman in a volunteer move , the fire .
now , in our city , in which volunteers supported a high-skill professional fire department , you have to be in the burn spot pretty early to be able to mix with .
i remember my first fire .
i was the second volunteer at the brand site , so i had pretty good opportunities to be able to go in .
but it was still a race against the other volunteers to reach the responsible headman and figure out what our tasks would be .
when i found the main man , he had just been in a very serious conversation with the homeowner , who certainly had one of the worst days of her life .
it was in the middle of the night , and she stood in the bedrock train and barefoot under a screen outside in the flowing rain , while her house was in flames .
the other volunteer who had arrived just before me -- call him lex luther -- reached the main man first and was asked to go into the house and save the dog of the house .
the dog ! i was linguistic .
they threw shiny photos of themselves from the air , which we would rate as a friendly gesture , and they forgot that these people from the rainforest in their lives had never seen anything two-dimensional .
what i &apos;m telling you is that these expensive , complicated decisions -- it &apos;s not easy to help .
there was a lawyer or a lawyer who could now tell the rest of his life , that he went to a burning house to save a living creature just because it was five seconds faster than i was .
well , i was next .
the main man would wave me up .
he said , &quot; bezos , you have to go into the house .
you &apos;ve got to go up , and you &apos;ve got to go by the fire , and this woman &apos;s got to get some shoes . &quot;
i swear it .
now , not exactly what i hoped to do , but i went up -- the stairs up , down the hallway , past the real firemen who were already pretty much finished at that point , in the bedroom to get a few shoes .
i know what you &apos;re thinking now , but i &apos;m not a hero .
i wore my prey back to the bottom , where i met my enemy on the front door and the beloved dog .
we carried our estimates out to the homeowner , where , not surprisingly , he got a lot more attention than mine .
they even hurt .
a few weeks later , the fireguards got a letter from the homeowner , where they thanked for the brave use to save her house .
one of the things that was overwhelmed kindness : somebody had actually brought her a pair of shoes .
both in my profession at robin hood and in my side profession as a volunteer fireman , i &apos;m witnessing generosity and kindness at a large scale , but i also see the actions of philanthropy and the mute of individuals .
and you know what i learned ?
they &apos;re all important .
so when i look around this room and i see people who have either achieved a remarkable success or are on their way there , i want to offer the following memory : don &apos;t wait .
don &apos;t wait to make a difference in someone else &apos;s life until they get their first million .
if you have something to give , now you give it .
you operate in a soup kitchen , you clean a park in the neighborhood .
be a mentor .
they make us worse .
not every day will give us a chance to save the lives of a human being , but every day will give us a chance to change one .
so go ahead ; save the shoes .
thank you .
bruno guissani : mark , mark , come back .
thank you .
i &apos;m just coming back from a community that knows the secret to the continuity of humanity .
a place where the women are running the ceptor with sex saying hello , and the game determines the day -- where fun is a serious issue .
and no , it &apos;s not burning man or san francisco .
ladies and gentlemen , their relatives .
this is the world of the wild bonobos in the forest of congo .
if something that enables the people of our society to make decisions about the societies in which people have shifted too little choice , not only would the lives of people be improved , but our dignity is also improved .
bonobos are our closest living relatives with chimpanzees .
that means we have a common ancestor , an evolutionary grandmother who lived about six million years ago .
well , chimpanzees are known for their aggressivity .
but unfortunately , we have emphasized this aspect in the narrative of human evolution .
but bonobos shows us the other side of the medal .
while chimpanzees are led by big , scary guys , the bonobo society is led by empowered females .
they &apos;ve really come up with something , because that leads to an extraordinarily tolerant society that has not been observed in lethal force .
but unfortunately , bonobos are least known among the primates .
they live in the depths of the congolese primordial forest , and they &apos;re very hard to observe .
the congo is a paradox -- a country of extraordinary biodiversity and beauty , but also the heart of darkness itself -- the location of a violent argument that has been raging for decades and almost as many lives as the first world war .
economists call this a pareto improvement application .
it doesn &apos;t surprise that this destruction also threatens the survival of the bonobos .
meat trade and the decline of the canopy is that you couldn &apos;t even fill a stadium with the bonobos that are left -- and even we &apos;re not sure to be honest .
and yet , in this country of violence and chaos , you can hear a hidden laugh that the trees are shattering .
who are these relatives ?
we know them as &quot; love instead of war &quot; monkeys , because they have a common , bisexual sex , with changing partners , and rules like that , and social issues .
i &apos;m not saying that &apos;s the answer to all humanitarian problems -- because the bonobos life is more than the kama sutra .
bonobos -- like people -- love to play your whole life .
play is not just child games .
for us and it &apos;s a game that is fundamental to the attachment of relationships and the care of tolerance .
and we learn trust and the rules of the game .
income distribution is going to make everybody better -- not just the poor -- because all this great choice is going to be plagued to us .
play enhances creativity and resilience , and it &apos;s all about generating diversity -- diversity of interactions , diversity of behaviors , diversity of connections .
and when you watch bonobos play , you see the evolutionary origins of human salmon , dance and of rituals .
play is the tickle that keeps us apart .
now , i don &apos;t know how they play , but i want to show you some unique footage from the wild .
first of all , a ball game in bonobo-style -- and i don &apos;t think of football .
so here we see a young female and male in a tracking game .
look at what it does .
this could be the evolutionary origin of &quot; she grabs it in the eggs . &quot;
just that i think he likes it more , right ?
yes !
finally , please read this cartoon , and , a sophisticated person , says , &quot; ah ! what does this fish know ?
so sex games are common , both in bonobos and in humans .
and this video is really interesting , because it shows -- and this video is really interesting , because it shows the idea wealth with which you bring new elements into play -- like the testicles -- and also how the game is both challenging and promoting -- while it &apos;s simultaneously unbelievable fun .
but the game is a shape-shifter .
play is a shape-shifter , and it can take many forms , some of which are a little bit quieter , imaginative , curious -- perhaps to rediscover the astonishment .
and i want to show you , this is fuku , a young female , and she plays peaceful with water .
i think , just like they play , we sometimes play alone , and we select boundaries of our inner and outer worlds .
and it &apos;s this playful curiosity that makes us explore and interact , and the unexpected connections that we create are the real nutritional ground of creativity .
this is just a little taste of the insights that bonobos gives us into our past and present .
but they also true a secret to our future , a future where we need to adapt to increasing challenges , through greater creativity and printing , enhanced cooperation .
the secret is that play is the key to these skills .
you don &apos;t know anything possible in this gold glass . &quot;
in other words , play is our adaptation joker .
in order to adapt successfully to an inconstant world , we have to play .
but are we going to make the best out of our play drive ?
play is not silly .
it &apos;s essential .
for bonobos and people , equally , life is not made of teeth and claws alone .
just when it doesn &apos;t seem very appropriate , play may be the most necessary .
and so , my primary comrades , let &apos;s embrace this gift of evolution and play together , while we rediscover the creativity of the camera and the wonder .
thank you .
i want you to imagine two pairs , in the middle of 1979 , exactly the same day , at the same moment , every baby -- okay .
impoverished imagination , a short-sighted view of the world -- and that &apos;s the way i first read it .
so two couples , every baby .
now , i don &apos;t want you to spend too much time imagining the production , because , if you imagine the production all the time , you won &apos;t listen to me .
just imagine for a moment .
and in this scenario , imagine that in a case , the sperm carries a y chomosom that hits the x chromosome of the egg .
and in the other case , the sperm carries a x chromosome that hits the x chromosome of the egg .
both of them are viable , both light .
we &apos;ll come back to these people later .
in most of my activities , i have two hats .
under a hat , i &apos;m looking at the history of anatomy .
i &apos;m a historian , and in this case , i study how people were dealing with anatomy -- which is human bodies , animal bodies -- how they were dealing with body fluids , with body concepts ; how they thought about bodies .
but the more i thought about it , the more i got to the point that the fish knows something .
the other hat that i &apos;ve been wearing in my work is the activist , as a patient lawyer -- or , as i sometimes say , as an impatient lawyer -- of people who are patients of doctors .
in this case , i &apos;ve been working with people who have body types challenging social norms .
so , for example , i worked with people who are siamesian twins , two people in a body .
i worked with people with dwarfs -- so people who were smaller than usual .
and very often , i &apos;ve been working with intersexual people whose gender is atypical -- so people who don &apos;t have the average male or female body types .
and as a general term , we can use the word &quot; intersexuality . &quot;
intersexuality is in many different forms .
i &apos;ll just give you a few examples of the possible types of gender variants that don &apos;t correspond to male or female standards .
in one case , you might have someone with an xy chromosome base , and the sry gene of the y chomosoms is the protogonads that we all have in fetal stadium to grow up to testicles .
and that &apos;s why the testosterone testosterone is in the fetal stage .
they raised these photographs from the forest floor , trying to see behind the face or the figure , found nothing and concluded that these were business cards of the devil , and they killed the five missionaries with the spear .
because the truth is , if you break the gold glass , so everything is possible , you have no freedom . you have paralysis .
but because this individual is missing the receptors to see the testosterone , the body is not responding to the testosterone .
and this is called androgenic defect .
so a lot of testosterone , but no reaction to it .
as a consequence , the body develops more of the typical female course .
when the child is born , she looks like a girl .
she &apos;s a girl . she &apos;s raised as a girl .
but it &apos;s mostly until she reaches puberty and her breasts grow and they develop , but she doesn &apos;t get her period , until someone comes to the fact that there &apos;s something different here .
and they do some tests , and they find that instead of ovarian sticks and uterus , she actually has testicles , and she has a y chromosome .
it &apos;s important to understand that you could actually think that person is male , but they &apos;re not really .
women , like men , have something in our bodies called adrenaline glands .
if you break the gold glass , so everything is possible , you reduce happiness .
they &apos;re in the back of our body .
and the side kidneys make androgens , which are virilizing hormones .
most women , like me -- i think being a typical woman -- i don &apos;t know my actual chromosomes , but i think i probably have the typical -- most women like me actually talk about androgens .
we produce androgen , and we respond to androgens .
the consequence is that someone like me actually has a brain that was exposed to more androgens than a woman who was born with testicles , and has an androgenic defect .
so gender is really complicated ; intersexuals are not just in the middle of the spectrum of gender -- in a sense , they can be distributed across the bandwidth .
another example : a few years ago , i got a call from a 19 year-old man who was born as a boy , when he was a boy , he had a friend , he had sex with his girlfriend , he lived as a man , and he had just figured out that he had eggs and a uterus .
he had an extreme form of an innate side cattle hypertension .
he has xx chromosome , and in the womb , his side kidneys were so active that they basically created a male hormone environment .
and as a consequence , his genitals were male , his brain was exposed to the more typical male part of the hormone spectrum .
they increase paralysis and they reduce happiness .
and when he was born , he looked like a boy -- no one knew anything .
and only when he got 19 years old , he got enough medical problems , actually , because he got inside , that the doctors found that he was female inside .
okay , just one quick example of a variant of intersexuality .
some people with xx chromosomes , develop something called ovotestis , which is wrapped up with ovarian tissue of testicular tissue .
we don &apos;t know exactly why this is happening .
so gender can occur in many different varieties .
the reason why kids with this kind of body -- whether it &apos;s dwarf or siamesian twins , whether it &apos;s intersexual -- is often adapted to the norm by surgeons , is not because it would be advantageous for their physical health .
in many cases , these people are completely healthy .
the reason why they often do different kinds of surgical interventions is because they threaten our social categories .
typically , our system is based on the idea that a certain anatomic ancestor comes with a certain identity .
everybody needs a gold glass .
so we have the concept that being a woman is to have a female identity ; to be a black person , which is , supposedly , to have an african anatomy in terms of their own history .
so we have this incredibly simplistic idea .
and when we &apos;re faced with a body that actually represents something very different for us , it confuses us in terms of these categorizations .
so we have a lot of romantic ideas in our culture about individualism .
and our nation is really based on a very romantic concept of individualism .
now you can imagine how amazing it is when children are born , who are two people in a body .
where i had seen most of the excitement recently , the south african runner caster semenya was last year whose gender was challenged by the leichatlethik world cup in berlin .
many journalists called me with the question , &quot; what test are you going to do that tells us whether caster semenya is female or male ? &quot;
and i had to explain to the journalists that there &apos;s no test .
we now know that gender is complicated enough , that we have to admit that nature doesn &apos;t move a line between male and female , or between male and intersexual and female and intersexual , and we are tactile , and we are the ones that pretend this line to be natural .
this is almost limited to complete security -- possibly for the fish , definitely for us .
so we have a situation where , the further our science is going on , the more we have to admit that these categories that we thought were stable anatomical categories , which made very simple attitudes to create permanent identity categories , are much less sharper than we thought .
and that &apos;s not just in terms of gender .
it &apos;s also true of race , which turns out to be much more complicated than our terminology has approved .
in our views , we &apos;re entering all sorts of uncomfortable areas .
for example , we &apos;re suggesting that we have at least 95 percent of our dna with chimpanzees .
what are we going to do with the fact that we &apos;re different from them just by a few nucleotides ?
as we continue our science further and further , we get into a zone of discomfort , where we have to recognize that the simplistic categories that we probably had are too simple .
we see this in all sorts of different parts of human life .
one of the areas in which we see this in beipiel , in our culture today , in the united states today , is the struggle over the beginning and the end of life .
we have difficult conversations about where a body becomes a human , so that it has a different right than the fetal life .
but the deforestation of being a metaphorical gold glass is a recipe for misery , and , i guess , disaster .
we have very difficult conversations today -- maybe not as public as in medicine -- about the question of when someone is dead .
our ancestors never had that hard to fight with the question of when someone was dead .
you &apos;ve only kept a feather under your nose , and if it moved , you haven &apos;t buried it yet .
if it didn &apos;t move , you buried it .
but today , we are in a situation where we take people &apos;s vital organs and we want to plant them to other people .
and as a result , we start to fight the really difficult question of when someone &apos;s dead , and that brings us into a really difficult situation where we don &apos;t have as simple categories as we used to .
now you might think that the whole collapse of categories would really make someone like me happy .
i &apos;m politically progressive , i defend people with unusual bodies , but i have to admit it makes me nervous .
to understand that these categories are actually much more insecure than we thought , makes me excited .
and i &apos;m excited about this in terms of thinking about democracy .
thank you very much .
so to tell you about this tension , i have to first know that i &apos;m a big fan of the founding fathers .
i know they were racial , i know they were sexist , but they were great .
i think they were so brave and so strong , and so radical , in what they did , that every few years , i found myself looking at the maltzy musical 1776 , and it &apos;s not because of the music that is absolutely forgotten .
it &apos;s because of what happened to the founding fathers in 1776 .
the founding fathers , in my view , were the original anatomic activists , and that &apos;s why .
what they showed back was an anatomic concept , and they replaced it with another one that was radically and beautiful , and 200 years was measurable to us .
as you all remember , our founding fathers rejected the concept of monarchy , and the monarchy was basically based on a very simplified concept of anatomy .
the rulers of the old world had no concept based on dna , but they had a concept of the birthright .
they had a concept of blue blood .
they were thinking that people who had political power should have this political power , because of the inherited blood line from grandfather to father to son and so on .
you know , i &apos;ve talked about some of these projects before , about the human genome and what that might mean , and the discovery of new groups of genes .
the founding fathers turned this idea back and replaced it through a new anatomic concept , and this concept said that all people were created equally .
they niveled the game field and decided that anatomically , the commonalities counted , not the differences . and that was very radical .
now they did this in part because they were part of an enlightenment system where two things grew together .
democracy grew , but at the same time , science also grew .
if you look at the history of the founding fathers , it becomes clear that many of them were very interested in science , and they were interested in a concept of a naturalistic world .
they went away from explanations of supernatural species , and they proved things like a supernatural concept of power , where the transmission is based on a very vague concept of birth law .
they moved to a naturalistic concept .
and if you look at , for example , the declaration of independence , they talk about nature and the god of nature .
they &apos;re not talking about god and the nature of god .
they &apos;re talking about the power of nature to tell us who we are .
in fact , we &apos;re starting from a new point : we &apos;ve digitized biology , and now we &apos;re trying to get from the digital code to a new phase of biology by designing and building new life .
and as part of that , they gave us a concept that was about anatomic commonalities .
and so they &apos;ve been preparing the future civil rights movement in a really wonderful way .
they didn &apos;t think that way , but what they did for us was great .
so what happened years after that ?
for example , women who aspired to vote , the concept of the founding fathers , which says that anatomic commonality is more important than the anatomic difference , and said , &quot; that we have a uterus and ovariation as a difference is not significant enough that we shouldn &apos;t have the right to vote , the right to full citizenship , the right to own , etc . &quot;
and women argued this successfully .
next was the successful civil rights movement , where we saw people like sojourner truth , who were talking about it , &quot; am i not a woman ? &quot;
we find men in the marching rows of the civil movement saying , &quot; i &apos;m a man . &quot;
again , people of different skin color , working on anatomic commonalities before anatomic differences , again , successfully .
we see the same thing with the disability movement .
we &apos;ve always tried to ask meaningful questions .
of course , the problem is that , as we start to look at all the commonalities , we have to start to question why we have certain separations .
well , i want to keep certain separations , anatomically , in our culture .
for example , i don &apos;t want to give a fish the same rights as a human being .
i don &apos;t want to say that we should take away from the anatomy .
i don &apos;t want to say that five year-olds should have the right to give their consent to sex or to marry .
so there are some anatomic separations that make sense to me , and that we think should keep .
but the challenge is to try and figure out what it is and why we keep it , and whether it makes sense .
so let &apos;s go back to these two creatures that have been made at the beginning of the talk .
we have two creatures , both in the middle of 1979 , on exactly the same day .
let &apos;s imagine that one of them , maria , was born three months ago , so she was born on june 1 , 1980 .
we go through initiational rituals .
but the waorani didn &apos;t just kill outsiders with the spear .
what is life ? it &apos;s something that i think many biologists have tried to understand and that &apos;s at different levels .
heinrich , on the other hand , is born to the birthday , so he was born on march one , 1980 .
just because of the fact that maria was born three months ago , she gets all sorts of rights three months before heinrich -- the right to have a decent sex , to choose the right to drink the right .
heinrich has to wait for all this , not because he actually has a different biological age , just because of the time he was born .
we find other oddities about what their rights are .
heinrich , because you assume he &apos;s male -- although i didn &apos;t tell you he &apos;s the one with xy -- because you assume he &apos;s male , he can now be drawn into what maria doesn &apos;t have to worry about .
maria , in all states , can &apos;t perceive the same right that heinrich has in all states , and that &apos;s the right to marry .
heinrich can marry a woman in every state , but maria can maria today marry a woman in a few states .
so we have these permanent anatomic categories that are problematic and questionable in many ways .
and for me , the question is : what are we going to do , because our science makes such progress in anatomy , that we can get to a point where we have to admit that a democracy based on anatomy could fall apart ?
i don &apos;t want to give up the science , but at the same time , sometimes it feels like science is self-assembling .
we tried different approaches to simplify it to the minimal components .
so where do we go ?
it seems like our culture is taking a kind of pragmatic posture : &quot; well , we need to move a line somewhere , so we move it somewhere . &quot;
but a lot of people get caught in a very strange position .
so for example , texas , at a point , decided that marrying a man means you don &apos;t have y chromosome , and marrying a woman means you have a y chromosome .
now in practice , people are not tested for their chromosome .
but it &apos;s also very bizarre because of the story i told you about the androgenic defect in the beginning .
if we look at one of the founding fathers of modern democracy , dr. martin luther king , he offers us a dream of &quot; i have a kind of solution . &quot;
he says we should judge people not for &quot; their skin color , but for their character &apos;s property , &quot; and go beyond anatomy .
and i want to say , &quot; yes , that sounds like a really good idea . &quot;
but how do you do that in practice ?
we have digitized almost 20 years . when we sequenced the human genome , the shift from the analog world of biology to the digital world of computers .
how do you judge people because of their characteristics ?
i also want to point out that i &apos;m not sure that we should distribute rights in this way , in terms of people , because i have to admit that i know a series of golden retriever that probably deserves social benefits rather than some people i know .
i want to say that i probably know some bright labrador dogs , who are more capable of making more intelligent , more mature decisions about their sexual relationships than some 40-year-olds i know .
so how are we going to operate on the question of the characteristics of character ?
it turns out to be really hard .
and part of me wonders , what if the content of a personality was something that could be machine-readable in the future -- with the fmri , could be made visible ?
do we really want to go this way ?
i &apos;m not sure where we &apos;re going .
what i know is that it seems to be really important to think about the idea that the united states is leading to thinking about questions of democracy .
in our endeavor for democracy , we &apos;ve done really well , and i think we &apos;re going to do our thing well in the future .
now we &apos;re trying to ask , can we regenerate life , or can we create new life , from this digital universe ?
we don &apos;t have the situation where , for example , iran is the case , where a man who is sexually drawn to other men , who is punished with death , unless he &apos;s willing to submit himself to a gender transformation , in which case he can stay alive .
the states of this species don &apos;t exist with us .
i &apos;m happy to say that we don &apos;t have these states -- a surgeon that i spoke to a few years ago , who had brought some siamesian twins to separate them , in part to make a name .
but when i was telephone with him , and i asked him why he was doing these interventions -- they were highly risky surgeries -- his answer was that in his country , these kids would be treated very poorly , and therefore he had to do it .
i said to him , &quot; well , did you consider political asylum rather than surgery to separate it ? &quot;
the united states provides incredible opportunities to allow people to be who they are , without having to change around the country &apos;s will .
so i think we need to be leadership .
all right , just to finish , i want to notice that i &apos;ve talked a lot about the fathers .
and i want to think about the possibilities of what democracy might look like , or may have looked like , if we had more involved the mothers .
and i want to say something that is a little bit radical for a feminist , and that is , i think there might be different kinds of insights that have different kinds of anatomy , especially when people use group thinking .
this is the map of a small organism , mycoplasma geitalium , which has the smallest genome of a species that can replicate itself in the lab , and we &apos;ve tried to see if we can do that with a smaller genome .
for years , because i &apos;ve been interested in intersexuality , i &apos;ve also been interested in gender research .
and one of the things that i found really interesting is the difference between men and women in terms of how they think and operate in the world .
what we &apos;ve learned from cross-cultural studies is that women , on average -- not everybody , but on average -- tend to give a lot of attention to complex social relationships and caring for people who are vulnerable within the group .
and so when we think about it , we have an interesting situation in front of us .
years ago , when i was a graduate student , one of my graduate students asked me who knew my interest in feminism -- i looked at myself as a feminist , and i still do it -- a really strange question .
he said , &quot; tell me what &apos;s female about feminism . &quot;
and i thought , &quot; well , that &apos;s the stupidest question i &apos;ve ever heard .
feminism is about solving stereotypes about gender , so feminism is not female .
but the more i thought about his question , the more i thought there could be something female in feminism .
that is to say , there could be something , on average , that will make women &apos;s brains different from male , which makes us more careful for highly complex social relationships , and more careful for the protective needs .
we &apos;ve managed to get about a hundred genes from the 500 or something that are here .
so where the founding fathers were extremely consistent with figuring out how individuals could be protected from the state , it &apos;s possible that if we brought more mothers into this concept , we could get more of a concept , not just how to protect , but how to care for each other .
and maybe that &apos;s where we have to go in the future , if we do democracy about anatomy -- less to think about the individual body in terms of identity , and think more about relationships .
so that if we as people try to make a more perfect connection , we think about what we can do for each other .
thank you .
i &apos;m jessi , and this is my suitcase .
but before i show you what i have in it , i &apos;m going to make a very public confession , and that &apos;s : i &apos;m obsessed with outfits .
i love to have a different colorful , crazy outfit at every opportunity , and to photograph and blog lately .
but i don &apos;t buy anything new .
i get all my clothes from the second hand in flower markets and second-hand shops .
ooh , thank you .
but if we look at this metabolic map , which is very simple , compared to ours , trust me , that &apos;s simple . but if we look at all these genes that we can eliminate one after the other , it &apos;s very unlikely that this would lead to a living cell .
second-hand shopping allows me to reduce the impact of my garderobe on the environment and also the stock market .
i meet all sorts of great people ; my dollars usually serve for a good purpose ; i look pretty unique ; and it makes shopping my own personal chat .
i mean , what am i going to find today ?
will it be my size ?
am i going to like the color ?
is it going to cost less than 20 dollars ?
if all the answers are yes , i feel like i &apos;ve won .
i come back to my suitcase , and i tell you what i &apos;ve packed for this exciting week here at ted .
i mean , what does anybody bring with so many outfits ?
so i &apos;m going to show you exactly what i brought with me .
so we decided that the only way forward is to actually synthesize this chromosome , which allows us to vary the individual components and ask some of these fundamental questions .
i brought seven underpants with me , and that &apos;s all .
underpants for exactly a week are all i &apos;ve done in my suitcase .
i woke up that i would find anything else that i might want to wear if i first came to palm springs .
and since you haven &apos;t heard of me as the woman walking around here at ted in her underwear -- that means i found some things .
and i really want to show you my outfits for this week .
does that sound good ?
while i &apos;m doing that , i &apos;m going to give you some of the lessons that i have , whether you believe it or not , learned from these adventures to wear nothing new .
let &apos;s start with sunday .
i call this the shining tiger .
you don &apos;t have to spend a lot of money looking great .
and so we started with the question , can we synthesize a chromosome ?
you can almost always look great for less than 50 dollars .
this whole outfit , including the jacket , cost me 55 , and it was the most expensive piece that i was wearing all week .
monday : color is something powerful .
it &apos;s almost physiologically impossible to be miserable if you &apos;re wearing bright red pants .
if you &apos;re happy , you attract other happy people .
tuesday : adaptation is totally overrated .
i spent a lot of my life trying to be myself and adapt at the same time .
just be who you are .
if you surround yourself with the right people , you &apos;re not just going to understand it , you &apos;re going to appreciate it .
wednesday : embrace your inner child .
is it possible for chemistry to make these really big molecules , which has never been done before ?
sometimes people tell me i looked like i &apos;m dressed &apos; or i remember her seven-year-old .
i then like to smile and say , &quot; thank you . &quot;
donnerday : confidence is the key .
if you think you look good in something , it &apos;s almost safe .
and if you think you &apos;re not looking good in something , you &apos;re probably right .
i grew up with a mother who taught me the day for day .
but it wasn &apos;t until i turned 30 that i really understood what that means .
and i &apos;m going to summarize that for you .
if you think you &apos;re a wonderful person inside and outside , there &apos;s nothing you can &apos;t wear .
so there &apos;s no excuse for someone in this audience .
they were drilling through each other .
and , if we can do that , can we start the chromosome ?
we should be able to rock everything we want .
thank you .
friday : a universal truth -- five words : golden pailletes fit to everything .
and finally , saturday : developing a unique , personal style is a great way to tell the world something about you without having to say a word .
it was proven to me over and over again , when people came up to me this week , just because of what i was wearing , and i had great conversations .
obviously , this is not going to fit into my tiny suitcase .
so before i go home to brooklyn , i &apos;m going to donate this all back .
because the lesson that i &apos;m trying to learn this week myself is that it &apos;s okay to let go .
i don &apos;t have to take these things emotionally , because right around the corner , there &apos;s always going to be another crazy , colorful , radiation outfit waiting for me if i have a little love in my heart and i &apos;m going to find it .
thank you very much .
a chromosome , by the way , is just a piece of informed chemical material .
thank you .
good afternoon , everybody together .
i have something here that i want to show you .
think of this as a visual point , as a flying point of view .
that &apos;s what we call perceptual design in our lab .
let me tell you a little bit about it .
now if you take this picture -- i &apos;m originally italian , and every boy in italy grows up with this image in his room , but the reason i &apos;m showing you this is something very interesting happened in formula 1 in the last few decades .
some time ago , if you wanted to win a formula 1 race , you took your budget and you put your money on a good driver and a good car .
and if the car and the driver were good enough , they won the race .
now today , you need , if you want to win a race , in fact , something like this -- something that monitors the car in real time , has a few thousand sensors that are giving information from the car , that information to the system , and then processing it , and then using it to send back decisions to this car and change things in real time while information is being collected .
our steps in digitizing life were exponential .
this is what you would call , in engineering teams , a real-time control system .
and basically , it &apos;s a system that &apos;s made of two parts -- a sensing part and a reacting part .
what &apos;s interesting today is real-time control systems are beginning to appear in our lives .
our cities , in the last few years , have just been equipped with networks and electronics .
they become free computers .
and as a computer in the free , they start to react in a different way , they &apos;re perceived and driven .
if we make cities , it &apos;s actually a big thing .
just by the way , i want to mention that cities are only two percent of the world &apos;s land , but 50 percent of the world &apos;s population lives there .
they &apos;re 75 percent of the energy consumption -- up to 80 percent of the co2 emissions .
so if we do something to the cities , it &apos;s a big thing .
our ability to write genetic code has been evolving very slowly , but it &apos;s still increasing , and our final point is now going to be on an exponential curve .
beyond the cities , all of this perceiving and driving into objects of everyday life .
this is from an exhibition that organizes paola antonelli for moma later in the year during the summer .
it &apos;s called &quot; leap with me . &quot;
now , all of our objects , our environment , are starting to speak back to us .
in a sense , it &apos;s almost like every atom out there becomes both a sensor and a driver .
and this radically changes the interaction that we humans have with our environment outside .
in a way , it &apos;s almost like the old dream of michelangelo ...
you know , when michelangelo shaped moses , it means that at the end , he took the hammer and threw it on moses -- actually , you can still see a little spot underneath it -- and said , &quot; perché non parli ? why don &apos;t you talk ? &quot;
now , today , our environment begins for the first time to respond to us .
i &apos;m just going to show you a few examples -- again , with the idea of perceiving and driving our environment .
we started this 15 years ago .
let &apos;s start with perceiving it .
now the first project i want to show you is actually one of the first of our labs .
it came in italy four and a half years ago .
and what we did was actually use a new kind of network that was used all over the world -- this is a mobile phone network -- and use anonymous and aggregated information from this network that is being collected from the operator anyway to understand how the city works .
the summer was a happy summer -- 2006 .
it was when italy won the football world championship .
some of you will remember , it was when italy played against france , and then at the end of the zidane , the head .
and anyway , italy has won at the end .
now look at what happened that day , just watching the activity that happens in the network .
here you see the city .
it actually took a few years to start with a bioethical review before we did the first experiments .
you see in the middle the colosseum , the tiber .
in the morning , before the game .
you see the timeline up there .
early afternoon , people here and there who are calling and moving .
the game starts -- silence .
france makes a gate . italy makes a gate .
half-time , people make a quick call , go to toilet .
second half-time . end of the normal play time .
first extension , second .
cidane , in a moment of the head .
as it turns out , dna synthesization is very difficult .
italy wins . yeah .
well , that night , everybody went to the center to celebrate .
they saw the big impact .
the next day , everybody went to the center to meet the victory team and the prime minister at the same time .
and then everybody went down .
you see the picture of the place circo massimo , where , since the roman time , people go to the celebration -- to have a big party , and you see the impact at the end of the day .
now , this is just an example of how we can feel the city today , in a way that we couldn &apos;t do a few years ago .
very quickly another example of feeling : this is not about people , but about things that we use and consume .
well , today we know everything about where our things come from .
this is a map that shows you all the chips that make a mac computer , how they came together .
there are tens of thousands of machines around the world that can make little pieces of dna , 30 to 50 letters long , but it &apos;s a degenerative process , so the longer you make a piece , the more errors happen .
but we know very little about where things go .
so in this project , we actually designed some little markers to pursue the trash as it goes through the system .
so we started with some volunteers who , a little over a year ago , helped us in seattle to tag the things that they threw away -- different kinds of things , as you can see -- things that they would throw away anyway .
then we have the little chips , the little brands , pasted on the garbage , and we start tracking it .
here are the results that we just got .
from seattle ...
after a week .
with this information , we realized that there are a lot of inefficient ones in the system .
we can actually do the same things with less energy .
the data was not available before .
so we had to develop a new method where we could put these little pieces together and correct the mistakes .
but this is what happens to a lot of unuseful transportation and complicated things .
but the other thing is that we believe that when we see every day , that the cup that we throw away doesn &apos;t just disappear that it &apos;s still somewhere on the planet .
and the plastic bottle that we throw away every day is still there .
and if we were to show that to people , then we can make change in behavior .
so that &apos;s the reason for this project .
my colleague at mit , assaf biderman , could tell you a lot more about what &apos;s going on , and the many other wonderful things that you can perceive , but i &apos;d like to talk about the second part that we were discussing at the beginning , and that &apos;s the emphasis of our environment .
and the first project is something we did a few years ago in zaragoza , spain .
it started with a question of the mayor who came to us and said that spain and southern europe have a beautiful tradition of using water as part of architecture .
and the question was , how could you connect technology , new technology with it ?
and one of the ideas that was inherited at mit in a workforce was , imagine these tubes , and valves , magnet valves , valves that open and close .
this was our first attempt , starting with digital information , the genome phi x 174 .
they make something like a water curtain with water points of imagery .
if these images fall down , they can write on it , they can display patterns , images , text .
and you can get close to him , and he &apos;s going to open up to let them jump through , as you can see in this picture .
well , we introduced the mayor to belhole .
he loved it very much .
and we got the mission to design a building in the entrance of the expo .
we called it the digital water pavillion .
the whole building was made of water .
there are no doors or windows , but if you approach it , it will open up and let it in .
the roof was also covered with water .
54 percent of the deaths happened through drilling .
it &apos;s a small virus that kills bacteria .
and if it &apos;s windy , if you want to reduce the syringes , you can actually leave the roof down .
or you could close the building , and the whole architecture , as in this case , you know , these days , when you go down the roof , you get pictures of people who were there and say , &quot; you &apos;ve destroyed the building . &quot;
no , they didn &apos;t destroy the building , it &apos;s just that architecture almost disappears .
here &apos;s how the building works .
you see the person wondering what &apos;s going on inside .
and here you see me trying to test the sensors that the water opened , not to get wet .
now , i should tell you what happened one night when all the sensors stopped working .
but actually , that night , it was a much more fun one .
all the kids from zaragoza came to the building , because the way they played with the building was very different .
no longer a building that would open up to let it go , but a building that still had breaks and holes in the water , you had to jump now without getting wet .
we made little pieces , we made a error correction , and we had a dna molecule of about 5,000 letters .
and that was , for us , very exciting , because as architects , engineers , as designers , we always think about how the people who use things that we design .
but reality is always unpredictable .
and that &apos;s the beauty of creating things that are used and interacting with people .
so here &apos;s a picture of the building with the physical imagery , the data points of water and the projections on it .
and this is what made us think about the following project that i &apos;m going to show you now .
imagine those images could really begin to fly .
imagine if you could have little helicopters flying through the air , and each one of you with a little bit of light changing -- almost like a cloud that can move through the room .
here &apos;s the video .
imagine a helicopter , like the one you saw earlier , moving with others , completely synchronized .
you can have this cloud .
the exciting phase came when we took this piece of informed chemical and we put it into a bacterium , and the bacteria started to read the genetic code and made viral particles .
you can have a kind of flexible screen or display , like this -- a smooth formation in two dimensions .
or infrequently , in three dimensions , where what changes is the light , not the position of the images .
they can play with different species .
imagine the screen could just appear in different formats or sizes , in different resolution .
but then the whole thing could be just a 3d cloud of points of imagery that you can go to and move through , that you can look at from many , many directions .
here you see a real flyfire-controlling that goes down to shape a smooth v like before .
when you turn on the lights , it looks like this , so the way we saw it before .
imagine that every single one of them is controlled by people .
it could have every single point of view a impulse that comes from people , from the movements of people or something like that .
i want to show you something too first here .
the viral particles were then released by the cells and came back and killed e. coli .
we &apos;ve been working with roberto bolle , one of the best ballet dancers of our time -- the étoile at the metropolitan theater in new york and the scala in milan -- we &apos;ve taken his movements in 3d to use them as a impulse for the flyfire .
this is roberto dancing .
on the left-hand side , you see the images , the different captured impressions .
it &apos;s simultaneously a real-time 3d scan and a motion recording .
so you can understand the whole movement .
you can do it all the time .
but then once we have all the imagery points , they can play with it , and they can play with the color of gravity and motion .
we want to use that as a possible impulse for the flyfire .
i want to show you the latest project we &apos;re working on .
it &apos;s something we &apos;re working on for the london olympics .
i was talking to the oil industry recently , and they said that they were doing this model properly .
it &apos;s called the cloud -- the cloud .
the idea is , again , imagine that again , that we engage people in doing something and changing the environment -- almost as we call it , to build a cloud movement , as you move a scheunentor , but with a cloud .
imagine that anyone can give a little donation to a point of view .
i think that the remarkable thing that &apos;s happened for the last few decades , the last decade , is that we &apos;ve changed from a physical world to a digital world .
this has digitized , knowledge , and it makes it available through the internet .
today , for the first time -- and the obama campaign has shown this -- we can move from the digital world , from the self-organizing forces of the networks to the physical world .
that can be , in our case , that we use it to design and create a symbol .
that means something that &apos;s built in the city .
but tomorrow , to face the challenges coming -- think about climate change or co2 emissions -- how can we change from the digital world to the physical ?
so the idea is that we actually involve the people in which they do things together , collectively .
they laughed more than you do here .
the cloud is , again , a cloud of points of imagery , in the same way as a real cloud is a cloud of particles .
and these particles are water , while our cloud is a cloud of points of imagery .
it &apos;s a physical structure in london , but covered with points of imagery .
they can move inside and have different kinds of experiences .
you can actually look at it from the bottom , share the most important moments for olympia in 2012 and beyond , and use it as a kind of connection to the community .
so both , the physical cloud in the sky and something that you can go to , like london &apos;s new mountain summit .
you can go in .
and a kind of digital glow in the night -- but most important , a new kind of experience for anyone who wants to go to the top .
thank you .
as an artist , it &apos;s very important to me .
so we think that this is a situation in software that can actually build your hardware in a biological system .
through my work , i try to express that people are not separate from nature , and that everything is connected .
the first time i was in antarctica almost 10 years ago , where i saw my first iceberg .
i was struck by awe .
my heart was racing , i was dizzy while i was trying to figure out what was in front of me .
the iceberg was racing around me almost 60 meters out of the water , and i could only wonder that this was a snowflake on another snowflake , year after year .
iceberg is born as a calf of a glacier , or by breaking out of ice sheets .
each iceberg has its own individual personality .
they &apos;re clearly interacting with their environment and their experiences .
some people refuse to give up and claim to the bitter end , while others don &apos;t stop and collapse dramatically in a seizure of passion .
when you look at an iceberg , you think they &apos;re easily isolated , separated and alone , as we humans often see .
but we wanted to go a lot further . we wanted to build a whole bacterial chromosome , and it has more than 580,000 letters of genetic code , so we thought we would build it in cassets of the size of the virus that we could varied the size of the cassets to understand what the individual components of a living cell are .
but the truth is far from it .
while an iceberg is melting , i &apos;m breathing its pre-time atmosphere .
as the iceberg melts , it releases mineral metabolic drinking water that feeds many forms of life .
i &apos;m going to go to my photographs of these iceberg mountains as if i &apos;m going to make portraits of my ancestors , in the consciousness that they exist in these individual moments , and they &apos;re never going to exist again .
it &apos;s not a death when you melt ; it &apos;s not an end , but a continuation of your path along the life cycle .
part of the ice in the iceberg that i &apos;m photographing is very young -- a few thousand years old .
and part of the ice is more than 100,000 years old .
the last images i &apos;d like to show you are a iceberg that i photographed in kekertsuatsiak in greenland .
very rarely you &apos;re actually witnessing a rolling iceberg .
here you see it .
design is the key , and if you want to start with digital information in the computer , this digital information has to be really miserable .
on the left , you see a little boat .
that &apos;s about five meters long .
please pay attention to the shape of the iceberg and where it is on the water line .
you can see here , he starts rolling , and the boat has moved to the other side , the man is standing there .
this is the average size of a greenland iceberg .
it &apos;s about 120 feet out of the water , or 40 meters .
and this video is real time .
and just like that , the iceberg shows you a different side of his personality .
thank you .
my life is really extraordinarily blessed by working on some amazing projects .
when we first sequenced the genome in 1995 , the error rate was at a error per 10,000 base pairs .
but the coolest thing i &apos;ve ever worked on is this guy .
his name is tempt .
tempt was one of the leading graffiti artists in the &apos; 80s .
then one day , he came back from walking and said , &quot; paps , my legs cribble . &quot;
and that was the outbreak of the thing .
tempt is now completely paralyzed .
he can only use his eyes .
i was facing him .
i have a company that makes design and animations , so graffiti is inevitably a complex part of what we admire and pay attention to in the art world .
so we decided to support tony -- tempt -- and to support his thing .
we followed the geneaology eight generations back , and we found two cases of a natural death , and when we asked people to do something about it , they admitted that one of the people had gotten so old that he died because of his age , and we killed him with the spear .
we found 30 errors in rescuing , and if we had used the original sequence , it would never have been possible to go up .
i met with his father and his brother and said , &quot; we &apos;re going to give you this money .
what are you going to do with it ? &quot;
and his brother said , &quot; i just want to talk to tony again .
i just want to talk to him again , and i said , &quot; wait a minute , isn &apos;t that -- i saw stephen hawking -- can &apos;t all the paralyzed people communicate with these devices ? &quot;
and he said , &quot; no , just if you &apos;re a higher layer of society and you have a remarkable insurance , you can really do that .
normal people are not accessible to these devices . &quot;
and i said , &quot; well , how do you communicate ? &quot;
did anybody see the movie &quot; butterfly &quot; and diving bell ?
that &apos;s how they communicate -- that &apos;s how their fingers walk along .
i said , &quot; very archaic , how could that be ? &quot;
part of the design is to create pieces that are 50 letters long , and that have to overlap with other 50-letter pieces to build smaller sub-units to fit them together .
so i came with the need to just put a check out , and instead , i made a check that i didn &apos;t have the slightest idea of how to fix it .
i committed to the place and the place to his brother and his father -- in the words , &quot; well , my proposal is this : tony &apos;s going to talk , we &apos;re going to get him a device , and we &apos;re going to find a way to make his art again .
because it &apos;s a farce that somebody who &apos;s carrying all this stuff can &apos;t communicate it . &quot;
so i spoke at a conference a few months later .
i met these guys from grl , graffiti research lab , and they have a technology that allows them to project a light on any surface and then draw it with a laser pointer that only registeres the negative area .
so they &apos;re moving around and doing art installations like this .
they say that all the things that are being shown up there are going to follow a life cycle .
it starts with the gender parts , and then the bad words come , and then the bush publishing , and finally , people actually do art .
but there was always a life cycle in their presentations .
so i went home and ate with my wife , and i told her about everything , and we thought , &quot; well , second , if there &apos;s this technology that you can use your eyes to control things , then we should find a way that tempt can control a laser , so that he can do graffiti again , that would be great . &quot;
we &apos;ve built unique elements here .
that was the beginning of the journey .
and about two years later , about a year later , after a lot of organization and a lot of things going back and forth , we &apos;ve done some things .
first of all , we &apos;ve called the insurance doors , and we &apos;ve actually got a device for tempt to communicate with -- a stephen hawking machine .
that was incredible .
and he &apos;s really extremely funny -- i call him yoda , because you talk to him , or you get an email , and you say , &quot; i &apos;m so unworthy , this guy is incredible . &quot;
furthermore , we &apos;ve flown seven programmers from around the world -- literally from all the corners of the world -- home to us .
my wife , my children and i have moved to the garage , and these hackers and programmers and conspiracy theorists and anarchists have taken over our house .
many of our friends thought we were pretty stupid to do that , and we came back and all the images on the walls would be free .
but for over two weeks , we programmed , we went to the beach board in venice , my kids were involved , too , my dog , and we created this .
it &apos;s called eyewriter , and you can see the description .
you may have heard that we &apos;ve built watermarks .
this is a cheap sunglasses that we bought on venice beach , a little bit of copper wire and a few things out of the building market and the electronics trade .
we took a ps3 camera , we put it apart , we put it on a led light , and now we have a device that &apos;s free -- you can build it yourself , we provide the code for free , you can download the software for free .
so we &apos;ve created a device that &apos;s completely free of limitations .
no insurance can make a difference .
no hospital .
everybody paralyzed now can actually communicate or draw with their eyes alone .
thank you .
thank you very much , that was incredible .
so at the end of the two weeks , we went back to tempt rooms .
i love this picture , because it &apos;s the room of someone else , and that &apos;s his room .
think about it : we have a four-letter code : a , c , g and t .
so there &apos;s all this rummel in front of the great unveiling .
and after over a year of planning , two weeks of programming , nudelparties and saturated nights , tony first drew back after seven years .
and this is an amazing picture , because this is his life support system , and it looks beyond his life support system .
we &apos;ve blown his bed so he can see outside .
we set up a projector against a wall of the parking lot before the hospital .
and he drew again for the first time , in both his family and friends -- and you can only imagine what kind of feeling that was in the parking lot .
we had to break into the parking lot , so we felt right as part of the spraying scene .
in the end , he sent us an email with this content , &quot; for the first time in seven years , i drew something .
i feel like i was squeezed underwater , and finally someone reached down and raised my head so i can breathe . &quot;
isn &apos;t that overwhelming ?
triplets of these letters -- these letters code about 20 amino acids ; and here &apos;s a single determination for each of these amino acids .
this is something like our contest .
that keeps us going , and it keeps us going .
and we still have to do a lot better on this device .
it &apos;s an amazing device , but it &apos;s a magic blackboard in a moment .
and someone who has such an artistic potential deserves so much more .
so we &apos;re trying to figure out how to make it better , faster and stronger .
since that time , we &apos;ve been getting all sorts of recognition .
we won some prices .
remember , it &apos;s free , none of us deserve it .
it all comes from our own pockets .
so we can use the genetic code to write our words , sentences , thoughts .
so the awards were , &quot; oh , that &apos;s fantastic . &quot;
armstrong twittered over us and then , in december , the time-magazine honored us as one of the 50 best inventions in 2010 , which was really great .
the coolest thing about this -- and this closes the whole circle -- is that this april , when moca hits the inner city of los angeles , there will be an exhibition called &quot; art of the streets . &quot;
and there will probably be pretty much the toughest representatives of the street art scene -- banksy , shepard fairey , caws -- all these guys will be there .
tempt will be part of the show , which is pretty descended .
so basically , i &apos;m talking about this : if you see something that &apos;s impossible , make it possible .
everything in this room was impossible -- this stage , this computer , this microphone , the eyewriter -- everything was impossible at some point .
make it possible -- all of you here .
i &apos;m not a programmer , and i &apos;ve never had anything to do with a generic technology , but i just captured something and surrounded myself with amazing people so that we could put something on the legs together .
and this question should each one of you ask yourself , and every single day , when you get something that needs to be done , if not now , when ? and if not me , who is then ?
we just signed at the beginning .
thank you .
so , i write for kids , and i &apos;m probably america &apos;s most popular children &apos;s book author .
and i always tell people that i don &apos;t want to come along like a scientist .
you can have me as a farmer , or in leather , but no one has ever chosen farmers .
today i want to tell you about circles and revelations .
well , one enlightenment is usually something you find because you dropped it somewhere .
you go around the block and you take it as a revelation .
this is a painting of a circle .
one of my friends did it -- richard bollingbroke .
it &apos;s the kind of complicated circle that i want to tell you about today .
some people were disappointed that it wasn &apos;t poetry .
my circle started in the &apos; 60s at high school in stow , ohio , where i was the classroom .
i was the one who was beaten every week in the virgin toilet green and blue until a teacher saved my life .
she saved my life by letting me use the toilet in the classroom .
that &apos;s what she did secretly .
she did it for three years .
and i had to go out of the city .
i had a thumb , i had 85 dollars , and it hit me to san francisco in california -- i found a lover -- and then in the &apos; 80s , i found it important to work with aids organizations .
about three or four years ago , i got a call in the middle of the night from this teacher , woman posting , who said , &quot; i have to see you .
i &apos;m sad that we &apos;ve never met each other as adults .
can you please come to ohio , and please come together with the man that i know you &apos;ve found him now .
we built the pieces so that we could just decompose them with enzymes , and there are enzymes that repair them and put them back together .
and i should mention that i have pancreatic cancer , and i want you to , please , hurry . &quot;
well , the next day we were in cleveland .
we looked at them , we laughed , we cried , and we knew it had to be in a hospice .
we found one for them , we took them , and we took care of them , and we gave them eight on their family because it was necessary .
it was something we knew to do .
and just as the woman who wanted to know me as adults , she met me , she turned into a box full of ashes and was put into my hands .
what had happened was that the circle had closed , it had become a circle -- and the revelation that i was talking about was .
the revelation is that death is part of life .
she saved my life , and my partner and i saved her .
and you know , this part of life needs everything the rest of life needs .
but at the same time , they had a clear knowledge of the forest that was amazing .
and we started making pieces , starting with pieces that had the fifth to seven-thousand letters , they put them together to make 24,000-letter pieces to put them back together , up to 72,000 .
it needs truth and beauty , and i &apos;m so glad that this has been mentioned so often here today .
he needs the same -- he needs to have love and pleasure , and it &apos;s up to us to give these things .
thank you .
imagine a big explosion as you get up to 1,000 meters .
imagine an airplane full of smoke .
imagine a power station that makes a clap , a soack , a clap , a clap , a socket , a socket , a clap .
that sounds frightening .
well , i had a unique place that day ; i was sitting on 1d .
i was the only one who could talk to the airplanes .
so i looked at them in a moment , and they said , &quot; no problem , we probably got some birds . &quot;
in each step , we produced these pieces in the surplus so that we could sequence them , because we tried to create a very robust process , which you &apos;ll see in a minute .
the pilot had already turned the machine , and we were not that far away .
you could see manhattan .
two minutes later , three things happened at the same time .
the pilot was doing the machine after the hudson river .
that &apos;s not usually the route .
he turns off the engine .
imagine a noisy airplane .
and then he said three words -- the most emotional words i &apos;ve ever heard .
he says , &quot; get ready for a break . &quot;
i didn &apos;t have to talk to the board staff anymore .
we tried to get to the point of automation .
i could see it in her eyes , and there was a fear , and life was over .
now i want to share with you three things that i &apos;ve learned about me that day .
i learned that everything is different in a moment .
we have this life plan , we have these things that we want to do in life , and i thought about all the people i wanted to reach a hand and didn &apos;t do it , all the fences that i wanted to flick , all the experiences that i wanted to do and never did .
while i was thinking about it later , i came up with a phrase that says , &quot; i &apos;m collecting bad wine . &quot;
because if the wine is that far , and the person is there , i open it up .
i never want to change anything in life .
and this urgency , this goal , really changed my life .
the second thing i learned that day -- and that was when we missed the george washington bridge , pretty much around hair -- i thought , man , there &apos;s one thing that i really regret .
i had a good life .
so , this looks like a basketball playoff .
in my own humanity , and with my mistakes , i aspired to be better in everything i was attacking .
but in my humanity , i also gave my ego space .
and i regretted the time i wasted for meaningless things , with people who mean something .
and i thought about the relationship with my wife , with friends , with people .
and after that , when i was thinking about it , i decided to ban negative energy from my life .
it &apos;s not perfect , but it &apos;s much better .
i didn &apos;t argue with my wife for two years anymore .
it feels great .
i &apos;m not trying to be right anymore ; i decide to be happy .
the third thing that i learned -- and that is , as the internal clock begins , &quot; 15 , 14 , 13 , count down . &quot;
when we get to these really big pieces -- over 100,000 base pairs -- they &apos;re not just going to grow in e. coli . it &apos;s going to exceed all the possibilities of modern molecular biology . and so we turned to other mechanisms .
you see the water coming .
i said , &quot; please fly into the air . &quot;
i don &apos;t want this thing to break into 20 parts , as you know from documentaries .
while we were crashing , i had this feeling of being human , dying is not terrifying .
almost as if we prepare our whole lives for it .
but it was very sad .
i didn &apos;t want to go ; i love my life .
and that sadness really formed in a thought , which is that i only wish for one thing .
i just wish i could see my kids grow up .
about a month after that , i went to see a show of my daughter -- first graders , not a lot of artistic talent ...
we knew about a mechanism called homologous recombination , which uses biology to repair dna that can assemble these pieces .
... not yet .
and i celebrate , i cry like a little kid .
and in the world , everything made sense for me .
i realized at the time , by connecting the dots together , that life is all about being a great father .
more than anything , anything else , my only goal in life is to be a good father .
i became the miracle of not dying that day .
i got another gift , which is to look into the future and come back and live differently .
my call to all of you who fly today is : imagine the same thing happening on your flight -- please don &apos;t -- but imagine , and how would you change ?
what would you do that you would shoot , because you think you were there forever ?
how would you change your relationships and the negative energy in it ?
here &apos;s an example of this . there &apos;s an organism called deinococcccccus radiodurans , which is three million wheels of radiation .
and more than anything else , are they the best parents they can only be ?
thank you .
the idea behind the stuxnet computer worm is quite simple .
we don &apos;t want iran to build the bomb .
the most important post there for developing nuclear weapons is the uranium incentive facility in natance .
the gray boxes that you see here , these are real-time control systems .
now , if we &apos;re able to commit the systems that control the files and valves , then we can actually do a lot of problems with the centrifuge .
these gray boxes don &apos;t run with windows software ; they &apos;re based on a completely different technology .
but if we can manage an effective windows-virus on a laptop that &apos;s used by a warning engineer to configure this gray box , then we &apos;re in the business .
and that &apos;s the planning behind stuxnet .
you can see in the upper field that his chromosome just falls apart .
so we start with a windows dropper .
the usage data is transferred into the gray box , damaging the centrifuge and the iranian nuclear energy program is delayed -- commission .
this is a child &apos;s game , right ?
i want to tell you how we figured that out .
when we started our research to stuxnet six months ago , it was completely unknown , which was the purpose of this construction .
the only thing we knew is very , very complicated in terms of the windows part , the dropper-part , it used by the countless cerothology .
and it seemed to have something to do with these gray boxes , these real-time control systems .
this attracted our attention , and we started a lab project where we infected our environment with stuxnet , and we studied this construct .
and then something weird happened .
stuxnet behaved like a lab rat that didn &apos;t like our cheese -- sniffed it , but didn &apos;t want to eat it .
12 to 24 hours later , it all sort of fused back together as it was .
that didn &apos;t make sense in my eyes .
and after experimenting with various kinds of cheese , i realized that this is a targeted attack .
completely focused on a particular goal .
the dropper is actively arguing on the gray box when a special configuration was discovered , even when the special program that &apos;s trying to infect is going on on this goal .
and if not , stuxnet doesn &apos;t do anything .
so , that really woke my interest , and we started working with it , almost around the clock , because i thought , well , we don &apos;t know what the goal is .
it could be , say , a us-american power plant , or a chemical plant in germany .
so we should be trying to figure out what the goal is .
so we extracted and decomposed the attack code , and we found that it was structured in two digital warheads -- a smaller one and a bigger one .
and we also noticed that they were very professionally constructed by people who obviously had all the insider information available .
we have thousands of organisms that can do that .
they knew all the bits and bytes that they had to attack .
they probably even knew the size of the machine operator .
so they knew everything .
and if you &apos;ve already gotten along that the dropper of stuxnet is complex and high-tech , let me tell you , the use data is a science for yourself .
it &apos;s much more sophisticated than anything we &apos;ve ever seen .
here &apos;s an excerpt from this attack code .
we &apos;re talking about -- about 15,000 lines of code .
looks pretty much like old-fashioned assembler language .
and i want to tell you how we were able to get out of this code .
so what we first looked for was system-functioning calls , because we know what they &apos;re doing .
her hunters could smell the urine of an animal from 40 steps away and determine what animal species that was owned by .
these organisms can be totally dry , they can even live in the vacuum .
and then we were looking for tigers and data structures and trying to connect them to the real world -- with potential goals in the real world .
so we needed theories about these goals that we could demonstrate or disprove .
in order to make these theories , we &apos;re going to remind ourselves that it &apos;s definitely highly sabotage , it has to be a high-value goal , and very likely it &apos;s iran , because most infections have been reported there .
now , in this area , there are not several thousand goals .
it &apos;s basically going out to the bush &apos;s nuclear power plant and the uranium incentive plant in natance .
so i said to my assistant , &quot; bring me a list of all the experts for centrifuge and power plants from our client tribe . &quot;
and i called her up , and i tapped her knowledge to compare her expertise to what we found in the code and in the data .
and that worked very well .
so , we were able to connect the little digital warhead to the rotor-controlling .
the rotor is this moving part within the centrifuge , this black object that you see .
i &apos;m absolutely sure that life can exist in space and move , looking for aquatic conditions .
and if you manipulate the speed of this rotor , you &apos;re actually able to crack the rotor , and eventually you can explode the centrifuge .
what we also found is that the goal of the attack was to actually make it happen slowly and incursively -- obviously in the attempt to have warning engineers desperate , so they wouldn &apos;t be able to get behind it quickly .
the big digital warhead -- we got a glimpse by looking at very precise data and data structures .
so , for example , the number 164 is very smooth out of this code ; you can &apos;t overlook it .
i started working through scientific literature about how these centrifuge are built in natance , and found that they &apos;re structured in what they call cascades , and each cascade contains 164 centrifuge .
so that made sense , it fit together .
and it got better .
these centrifuge in iran are divided into 15 so-called levels .
and guess what we found in the attack code ?
it &apos;s an almost identical structure .
in fact , nasa has shown that there &apos;s a lot of it out there .
so again , that fit really well .
and this gave us great confidence in what we were studying here .
now , don &apos;t get me wrong , it didn &apos;t just go like that .
these results have been achieved by several weeks of hard work .
and often we just ran into a dead end and we had to regather ourselves .
anyway , we found that both digital warheads were actually heading for one and the same goal , but from different directions .
the little warhead takes over a cascade , and turns over the rotors and slows them down , and the big sprint head comes in with six cascades in interaction and manipulates valves .
so , by and large , we &apos;re very confident that we &apos;ve actually determined what the goal is .
it &apos;s natance , and it &apos;s just natance .
so we don &apos;t have to worry that other goals could be hit by stuxnet .
so here &apos;s a photograph of the molecule that we made by using these processes -- actually , we just used hefty mechanisms with the right design of the pieces , and then we added them , and yeast then automatically assembles them .
here &apos;s something really cool stuff that we discovered -- i was really blown out of the socks .
down there is the gray box , and on top , you see the centrifuge .
now , what this thing does is it captures the actual values of sensors -- so for example , printing sensors and vibrational sensors -- and it provides legitimate code that &apos;s still going on during the attack , with false data .
and in fact , this false data from stuxnet has already been recorded .
so it &apos;s just like in hollywood movies , where , during the pursuing hunt , the surveillance camera is being fed with previous video footage .
that &apos;s cool , isn &apos;t it ?
the idea here , obviously , is not just overlisting the machine operators in the control room .
it &apos;s actually much more dangerous and much more aggressive .
the idea is to limit a digital security system .
we need digital security systems where a human machine operator can &apos;t respond fast enough .
this is not an electron microscope recording it &apos;s a regular microscope .
so in a power station , for example , if the big steam turbine is going too fast , you have to open up deposit valves within milliseconds .
of course , this can &apos;t be done by a human machine leader .
so at this point , we need digital security systems .
and when they &apos;re at risk , really bad things can happen .
the power plant can explode .
and neither the machine leaders nor the security system will notice it .
that &apos;s scary .
but it gets worse .
and what i &apos;m saying now is very important .
think about it . this attack is generic .
it &apos;s such a big molecule that we can actually see it with the light microscope .
he has nothing to do with centrifuge , with uranization .
so , for example , it would work as well -- in a power station or in a car factory .
it &apos;s generic .
and you don &apos;t have to -- as the attacker -- you don &apos;t have to put the use data on a usb stick , as we saw at stuxnet .
you could also use ordinary worm technology to disseminate .
you just have to spread it as far as you can .
and if you do that , you end up with a cyber weapon of mass destruction .
that &apos;s the consequence that we have to face .
so unfortunately , the biggest number of goals for those attacks is not in the middle east .
they &apos;re in the united states , europe and japan .
this is footage for six seconds .
so all these green areas , these are the most targeted environments .
we have to face the consequences , and we start to prepare for ourselves better .
thank you .
i have a question .
ralph , it was very much reported that people assume that the mossad is the main organization behind it .
is that your opinion too ?
okay , you really want to know that ?
yeah . okay .
in my opinion , the mossad is involved , but the driving force is not israel .
so the driving force behind it is the cyberpower .
this is the publication that we just recently completed .
there &apos;s only one , and these are the united states -- fortunately , fortunately .
because otherwise our problem would be even bigger .
thank you for chasing us a fear of heating . thank you ralph .
i &apos;ve spent the last couple of years putting myself in situations that are usually very difficult and , at the same time , kind of dangerous .
i went to prison -- difficult .
i worked in a coal mining -- dangerous .
i filmed in war areas -- difficult and dangerous .
and i spent 30 days eating nothing but this -- fun at the beginning , a little hard in the middle , very dangerous at the end .
in fact , i &apos;ve been exposed to most of my career to the appearance of terrible situations , and it &apos;s all for the attempt to examine society &apos;s belonging that they &apos;re compelling and interesting , and hopefully in a way that will make them fun and accessible to the audience .
so when i knew i was going to come here to look at the world of branding and sponsoring in a tedtalk , i knew i was going to do something a little different .
this is over 580,000 letters of genetic code , and it &apos;s the largest molecule with defined structure ever created by humans .
some of you may have heard that a few weeks ago , i turned on an ad on ebay .
i sent some facebook messages , some twitter messages , and i gave people the opportunity to get the name rights on my tedtalk 2011 .
really , some happy people and companies , for-profit and non-profit , got the one-time opportunity -- because i &apos;m sure that chris anderson will never let that go -- to buy the name rights on the talk that you &apos;re seeing , which at the time didn &apos;t have a title or a lot of content , and not a lot of evidence of what that topic would actually be .
so what you got was this : your name presents here : my tedtalk , which you have no idea what the topic is going to be , and that could ever fly you around the ears after content , especially if i put your company in a stupid way for your participation .
but besides that , it &apos;s a very good media opportunity .
do you know how many people look at these tedtalks ?
a lot .
this is just the working title , by the way .
so despite that warning , i knew anybody would buy the name rights .
now if you had asked me this a year ago , i wouldn &apos;t have been able to tell you this with certainty .
it has a molecular weight of over 300 million .
but in the new project that i &apos;m working on , my new film , we &apos;re looking at the world of marketing , advertising .
as i said , over the years , i went into some pretty terrible situations , but nothing could prepare me , nothing could give me anything as difficult and as dangerous as going into a room with these guys .
you know , i had the idea for a movie .
what i want to do is make a film around product placement , marketing and advertising , where the whole movie is funded by product placement , marketing and advertising .
and the film will be called &quot; the greatest movie ever sold . &quot;
so what happens in &quot; the great movie ever sold , &quot; is that everything from the top to the bottom , from the beginning to the end , is completely missed with brands -- from the front sponsor that you &apos;re going to see in the movie , that &apos;s the brand x .
now this brand , the qualcomm stadium , the staples center ...
these people will be connected to the movie in eternity forever -- forever .
and so the film will study this whole idea -- that &apos;s what ? in eternity , forever ?
i &apos;m a redundant person .
in the early 1980s , i got a really amazing task when my professor at harvard asked me if i was interested in going to haiti and infiltrating the secret societies that were the basis of the strength of duvalier and tonton macoutes and the poison that was used to make zombies safe .
if we were to print it with a writing size of 10 and without waste , it would be 142 pages , just to print this genetic code .
that was more emphasis .
it was &quot; forever , forever . &quot;
but we &apos;re not only going to have the brand x as a title sponsor , but we &apos;re going to make sure that we &apos;re going to sell every possible category in the movie .
so maybe we sell a shoe , and he will sell the greatest shoe you ever wore ...
the greatest car you &apos;ve ever driven from &quot; the great movie ever sold , &quot; the greatest drink you &apos;ve ever had , a attention from &quot; the greatest movie ever sold . &quot;
so the idea is , besides showing that brands are part of life , actually , to get them to fund the film ?
and we &apos;re actually showing the whole process of how it works .
the goal of the entire film is transparency .
you &apos;re going to see the whole thing going on in the movie of statites .
so this is the whole concept , the whole movie , from beginning to end .
now , how do we start a chromosome ? how do we activate it ?
and i would be happy if ceg would help to make this happen .
you know , it &apos;s funny because when i first heard it , it &apos;s the ultimate respect for the audience .
but i don &apos;t know how conception people will be .
do you have a perspective -- i don &apos;t want to use &quot; perspective , &quot; because that has a negative connotation -- but do you know how this is going to evolve ?
how much money is needed to realize that ?
1.5 million .
i think it &apos;s going to be hard to meet them , but i think it &apos;s definitely worth addressing some really familiar brands .
who knows when the film comes out , we might look like a horde vollidiot .
what do you think the answer will be ?
the answer will be extremely likely to be no .
obviously , it &apos;s very simple with a virus , and it &apos;s much more complicated to deal with bacteria .
but is it a difficult thing to do because of the film or a difficult thing for me ?
jk : both .
... so , not so optimistic .
so , sir , can you help me ? i need help .
i can help .
okay .
fantastic .
we have to think about what brands are .
yes .
if you look at the people that you have to deal with ...
it &apos;s as simple as you do in eukaryonts as we are : you just take the nucleus out and put another one in , and that &apos;s exactly what you &apos;ve all heard about the clones .
there are some places that we can turn to .
put the camera out .
i thought , &quot; put the camera out &quot; would mean that we wanted to have a backup conversation .
it turns out that it really meant , &quot; we don &apos;t want to have anything to do with your movie . &quot;
and just like that , all these companies disappeared , one after the other .
no one wanted to have something to do with the movie .
i was amazed .
they didn &apos;t want to have anything to do with the project .
and i was confused , because i thought the whole idea of advertising was to present your product as many people as possible , to make it as many people as possible .
especially in today &apos;s world , in this intersection of new and old media and the fragmented media landscape -- it &apos;s not the idea of being in this new exciting medium instrument that the masses are bringing this message .
in archaebacteria , the chromosome is integrated into the cell , but just recently we &apos;ve shown that you can do a complete transplant of one chromosome from one cell to the other and activate it .
no , that &apos;s what i thought .
but look , the problem was that my idea had a fatal mistake , and that was the following .
actually , no , that wasn &apos;t the mistake at all .
that wouldn &apos;t have been a problem at all .
that would have been okay .
but what this picture says is a problem .
you see , if you put transparency in the google search , this is -- this is one of the first images that appears .
i really like your species , sergey brin . now .
that was the problem : transparency -- free of deception and clothes , just to discover and look through , immediately understandable , characterized by visibility and access to information , especially in terms of business terms -- the last line is certainly the biggest problem .
you know , we &apos;re hearing a lot about transparency right now .
we cleaned the chromosome of a microbial species . roughly , these two are as far apart as humans and mice . we gave some extra genes to choose this chromosome . we deployed it with enzymes to destroy all the proteins . and it was very amazing when we put it in a cell -- and they &apos;re going to appreciate our very rich graphs here .
our politicians say it , our president says it , even our ceos say it .
but when it comes to the point that it &apos;s supposed to be implemented , something changes .
but why ? well , transparency is frightening -- like this strange bear that still breaks .
it &apos;s unpredictable -- like this strange landway .
and it &apos;s also very risky .
what else is risky ?
a whole bowl of cool whip food .
this is very risky .
so when i started talking to the companies and telling them that we wanted to tell this story , they said , &quot; no , we want you to tell a story .
we want you to tell a story , but we just want you to tell our story . &quot;
the new chromosome went into the cell .
you see , when i was a child , and my father caught me in lying -- and he &apos;s sitting there looking at me with this view -- he would say , &quot; my son , there are three versions in every story .
there &apos;s your version , there &apos;s my version , and there &apos;s the real version . &quot;
so you see , with this film , we wanted to tell the real version .
but since only one company , one agency was willing to help us -- and also just because i &apos;ve known john bond and richard kirshentree for years -- i realized that i had to do it alone , i had to deal with the middle man and go right to the companies with my team .
so what they suddenly started to understand -- or what i started to understand -- was that when you start talking to these companies , the idea of how your brand is understood is a comprehensive problem .
i have friends who make big , gigantic hollywood movies , and i have friends who make little independent movies like me .
and my friends , who make big , gigantic hollywood movies , say that the reason their films are so successful is because of the brand partners they have .
and then my friends , who make little independent movies , say , &quot; well , how are we going to compete with these big , gigantic hollywood movies ? &quot;
and the film is called &quot; the great movie ever sold . &quot;
so how exactly are we going to see ban in the movie ?
in fact , we thought that &apos;s the end here , but we tried to bring the process a little bit further .
every time i go on my way , and every time i open the medical closet , you &apos;ll see ban deodorant .
and every time i interview someone , i can say , &quot; are you fresh enough for this interview ?
are they that far ? they look a little nervous .
i want to help you calm down .
so maybe you should put a little bit of this in front of the interview . &quot;
and then we offer one of these great dunes .
either &quot; floral fusion &quot; or &quot; paradise winds , &quot; you &apos;ll have a choice .
we &apos;re going to be equipped for both men and for women -- solid , roll-on , or a stick , whatever .
that &apos;s the short-term .
now i can answer all of your questions and give you an excruciating socket .
this is the main mechanism of evolution here .
we &apos;re a smaller brand .
as you &apos;ve talked about the smaller movies , we &apos;re a challenge as a brand .
so we don &apos;t have a budget like other brands .
so doing these things -- you know , reminding people of ban -- that &apos;s kind of why we &apos;re interested in them .
in what words would you describe ban ?
ban is blank .
that &apos;s a great question .
superior technology .
technology is not the way to describe something that someone is doing under the axes .
we &apos;re talking about bold , fresh .
we find all sorts of species here that have taken a second chromosome , or a third of somewhere , every time , adding thousands of characteristics to a species in just one second .
i think , &quot; fresh &quot; is a great word that this category really makes something positive , as opposed to &quot; fighting smell and moisture . &quot;
it keeps you fresh .
how can we keep them fresh longer -- better fresh , more fresh , three times more fresh .
these things have a more positive effect .
and this is a million-dollar company .
what about me ? what about printing types ?
i have to talk to the man on the street , who are like me , otto normal consumers .
i want you to tell me something about my brand .
how would you describe your brand ?
hmmm , my brand ?
to make sense of this conversation , of course , i had to know something about this remarkable belief in the vodoun , and voodoo is not a cult of black magic .
so people who think of evolution as a gene that &apos;s changed at a time have missed a lot of biology .
i don &apos;t know .
i really like beautiful clothes .
in the &apos; 80s , revival hits scaterscore , except on the wash day .
all right , what &apos;s the brand gerry ?
unique .
i think the genre , the style i have , is probably &quot; dark glamour . &quot;
i like a lot of black colors , a lot of gray notes and stuff like that .
but usually i have an accessoire , like sunglasses , or a jewelry and stuff like that .
if dan were a brand , he would probably be a classic mercedes cabrio .
the brand that i am is , i would say , chattered fly .
there are enzymes called restriction enzymes that are actually digest dna .
woman 2 : part of hippie , part of yogi , part of the brooklyn-girl -- i don &apos;t know .
man 3 : i &apos;m the museum guy .
i sell shells all over the country , around the world .
so i think that &apos;s my brand .
this is my brand in my little , distorted industry .
my brand is fedex , because i was exhausted .
marke 5 : marked alcohol addict writers .
is that possible ?
lawyer : i &apos;m a lawyer brand .
i &apos;m tom .
the chromosome that was in the cell didn &apos;t have one ; the chromosomes that we &apos;ve added in .
now , we can &apos;t all be the tom-brand , but i often look at myself at the intersection of dark glamour and reliable flying .
and what i noticed was that i needed an expert .
i needed somebody who could go into my head , someone who could really help me understand what they call &quot; brand personality . &quot;
and so i found a company called olson zaltman in pittsburg .
they &apos;ve helped companies like nests , febrets , hallmark , discover this brand personality .
if they could do it for them , they could definitely help me .
they brought their pictures with them , right ?
i have that . the first picture is a picture of my family .
just tell me a little bit about how this is connected to your thoughts and feelings about yourself .
these are the people who shape my worldview .
it was expricked in the cell , and it recognized the other chromosome as a foreign material , and so we ended up with only one cell with a new chromosome .
tell me about this world .
md : this world ? i think your world is the world that you live in -- like people around you , the friends , the family , the way you live your life , the work and so on .
all these things come and start from a place , and for me , they start with my family in west virginia .
what &apos;s the next thing you want to talk about .
next . this was the most beautiful day of my life .
what is the context of the thoughts and feelings about yourself ?
it &apos;s the way i &apos;d like to be .
i like things that are different .
i like things that are weird . i like weird things .
tell me about the &quot; why &quot; phase -- what does it bring us ?
it was coloring blue because of the genes that we had added .
what is the machete ? what puppets are you in right now ?
why is it important to reboot ? what does the red represent ?
tell me a little bit about this part .
a little bit more about you , not you .
what other metamorphoses did you go through ?
... that doesn &apos;t have to be afraid . what kind of rollercoaster are you in ?
eeeeeeee ! no , thank you .
thank you very much for your patience .
yeah . all right .
yes , i don &apos;t know what it &apos;s going to be .
and after a very short time , it had lost all the characteristics of the species and completely converted into a new species based on the new software that we put into the cell .
there were a lot of crazy things going on .
the first thing i saw was this idea that your brand personality has two separate , but supplementary pages -- the morgan spurlock brand is an eighth / playful brand .
they do very well .
and i think there &apos;s almost a contradiction with that .
and i think some companies will only focus on a strength , rather than both .
many companies tend to -- and this is human nature -- things that they &apos;re not sure they &apos;re going to avoid , these elements , and they &apos;re going to welcome them , and they &apos;re actually going to turn them into something positive for themselves , and that &apos;s a great chess .
what other brands act like this ?
the first is a classic , apple .
and you can also see here , target , wii , mini cooper and jetblue .
well , there are playful brands and eighth brands , these things that come and go , but a playful brand , eighth brand is a pretty strong thing .
all the proteins changed the membranes -- when we read the genetic code , it was exactly what we transferred .
an eighth , playful brand . how is your brand ?
if someone asked you to describe your brand identity , your brand personality , what would it be like ?
you &apos;re an up-attribute ? are you something that brings blood into whales ?
or are they more like a down attribute ?
are you something a little bit more quiet , reservative , conservative ?
up-attributes are things that are playful , fresh like the fresh prince , timely , adventurous , fallen out and lovely like erol flynn , agile and agile , profane , magical and mystical like gandalf .
or are they more like a down attribute ?
are they mindful and mondeny like 007 ?
are they established , traditionally , nurturing , protecting , compassionate , like oprah ?
are they reliable , stable , family , safe , native , holy , considerable , the way the dalai lama or yoda ?
it may sound like genomic alchimie , but we can , by shifting software dna , change things quite dramatically .
in the course of the film , we had over 500 companies that were up and down companies , and they said no , because they didn &apos;t want to be part of the project .
they didn &apos;t want to have anything to do with this film , because they had no control , no control over the finished product .
but it will find 17 brand partners who were willing to give up on this control that wanted to do business with someone as mindful and playful as i did , and that eventually enabled us to tell stories that we wouldn &apos;t usually have told -- stories that a commercial would never support .
they enabled us to tell the story of neuromarketing , as we tell the story in this film , that you use mri today to plot the funeral centers of the brain , both to make advertising and films .
we went to sao paulo , where advertising has been banned .
in the entire city , for five years , there has been no antelope , no poster , no flyer , nothing .
and we drove in school districts where companies are moving their way into impoverished schools , all over america .
the incredible thing for me is that the projects that i got the most feedback , or where i got the greatest success , are the ones where i interacted with things directly .
and that &apos;s what these brands did .
because they went around the middle man , they went around the agencies , and they said that the agencies might not really have their interest in mind .
now i &apos;ve argued that this is not the genesis -- this is based on 3.5 billion years of evolution .
i &apos;m going to negotiate with the artist directly .
i &apos;m going to work with him and create something completely different , something that makes people think that our worldview is challenging .
and how was that for you ? what was it successful ?
now , since the film had premiere at sundance film festival , we can look at that .
according to burrelle , the premiere in january , and since then -- and that &apos;s not even the whole thing -- there were 900 million calls from this film .
this is actually just a period of two and a half weeks .
this is just online -- no press , no television .
the film hasn &apos;t been delivered yet .
it &apos;s not even online . it &apos;s not a streaming .
he hasn &apos;t come out in other countries .
and i &apos;ve argued that we may be creating a new form of cambrian explosion in which there might be massive new education based on this digital design .
well , finally , the film has won a very big momentum .
and that &apos;s not bad for a project where almost every advertising agency that we talked to has recommended their clients to let their fingers go .
one of the things that i really believe in is that if you take your chance , you take risks that are in those risks .
i think if you keep people out of it , you bring them closer to failure .
i think that when you exercise your employees to avoid risks , you prepare the whole company to get a profit .
i feel like we need to encourage people to take risks when they &apos;re going forward .
we need to encourage people not to be afraid of the possibilities that they might be afraid of .
finally , in the progression , we should be welcome to fear .
we should put the bear in the cage .
welcome the fear . welcome the risk .
on the contrary , it &apos;s a complex metaphysical worldview .
why should we do that ?
each one is a big spoon full , so we welcome the risk .
and finally , we should welcome transparency .
today , more than ever , a little bit of honesty brings us very far .
and that said , with honesty and transparency , my whole talk , &quot; are you welcome transparency , &quot; was presented to you by my good friends from emc , who paid 7100 dollars for the name rights on ebay .
big data is transformed for organizations around the world into big opportunities .
emc presents &quot; welcome to transparency . &quot;
thank you .
now , morgan , on behalf of transparency , this : what happened to the $ 7100 ?
that &apos;s a great question .
i put a check in my pocket , put it on the top organization of the ted organization , the sapling foundation -- a check of $ 7100 to fund my ted performance next year .
i think it &apos;s pretty obvious in terms of what we need .
my name is amit .
18 months ago , i did something else at google , and i was encouraging to do something with museums and art , and my boss , who is today , gave me green light .
and it took 18 months .
a lot of fun negotiations and stories , i can tell you , with 17 very interesting museums from nine countries .
but i &apos;m going to focus on the demonstration .
there are a lot of stories about why we &apos;ve done this .
i think my personal view is very simple with this slide and access .
i grew up in india .
i became a great education -- i didn &apos;t complain -- but i didn &apos;t have access to many museums and these works of art .
so when i went and went to these museums , i started to learn a lot .
we &apos;ve grown from six and a half to nine billion people in the next 40 years .
and while i was working for google , i was trying to make this yearning -- to make art more accessible -- to bring technology together .
we then formed a team , a great team , and we started this .
i &apos;m going to start with the demonstration , and i &apos;m going to tell you some interesting things that happened since the start .
so you just go to googleartproject.com .
you can look around all these museums here .
there &apos;s the uffizi , the moma , the hermitage , the rijks , the van gogh .
i even get to one of my favorite , the metropolitan museum of art in new york .
you come in two ways -- very simple .
click , and wumms , you &apos;re in this museum .
it doesn &apos;t matter where they are -- bombay , mexico , it doesn &apos;t make any difference .
to put it in my context , i was born in 1946 .
you go around and you amuse yourself .
you want to orient in the museum ?
open the map , and jump with a click .
they &apos;re in there , they want to get to the end of the gang .
just on . lots of fun .
hide them .
thank you , but the best one is still coming .
so i &apos;m in front of one of my favorite images , harvest workers of pieter breugel in the met .
i see this plush sign .
when the museum gave us the picture , they click on it .
today , three people on this planet are for anyone who has existed in 1946 ; within 40 years , it will be four .
now this is one of the images .
this is all metadata .
those of you who are really interested in art can click here -- but i &apos;m going to click that away now .
this is one of the images that we &apos;ve stuck with what we call the gigapix technology .
this picture , for example , has about 10 billion points of imagery , i think .
and a lot of people ask me , &quot; what do you get for 10 billion points of imagery ? &quot;
i &apos;m going to show you this .
you can zoom in and out very easily .
you see something fun here .
i love this guy ; his expression is unaffordable .
we have problems with food , with fresh and clean water , medicine , 6.5 billion people .
but then they really want to go deep inside .
and so i started playing around , and i realized that there was something going on .
and i thought , &quot; wait a minute , that sounds interesting . &quot;
i went close , and i noticed slowly that these kids actually beat something .
i did a little bit of research , and i talked to some famous people at the met , and i actually found out that it was a game called squail , where a gans is being beaten with a stick on the side of the day .
it seemed like it was quite popular .
i don &apos;t know why they did it , but i learned something about it .
to go really close , you can go to the cracks .
just to give you the overview , i zoom out so you can see what you get .
here we were , and this is the painting .
it &apos;s going to be a challenge to offer that to nine .
the best one is still -- in a second .
let &apos;s jump quickly to moma , again in new york .
another favorite picture of me , star night .
the previous example was about finding details .
but what if you want to see the paintbrush strikes ?
and what if you want to see van gogh creating this masterpiece ?
you zoom in . you can actually go in .
i &apos;m going to zoom in on one of my favorite parts of this image until i really am at the cracks .
this is starry night , probably never seen before .
now i &apos;m going to show you my favorite function .
we need over five billion tons of coal , 30-plus billion barrels of oil . that &apos;s a hundred million barrels a day .
there are many more , but i don &apos;t have time .
this is the really cool part , it &apos;s called collections .
each of you , everyone -- whether rich or poor , whether you have a great house -- doesn &apos;t matter .
you can go and create your own museum online -- from all these images , you can make your own collection .
simple , you go in -- and i created this , which is the power of the zoom -- you can zoom around .
this is &apos; the donated , &apos; in the national organization .
you can miss it all with remarks , send it to your friends , and start a conversation about what you feel when you look at these masterpieces .
i think , in conclusion , the main thing for me is that all the wonderful things aren &apos;t coming from google .
they don &apos;t even come out of the museums , i think .
maybe i shouldn &apos;t say that .
when we think about biological processes , or any process to replace that , it becomes a huge challenge .
they come from the artists .
and that was an experience in humility for me .
i mean , i hope that we &apos;re going to talk to this digital medium of art , and represent it properly online .
and the biggest question i get asked recently is , &quot; did you do this to replicate the experience of a museum visit ? &quot;
the answer to that is no .
it &apos;s to add the experience .
that &apos;s what it &apos;s about . thank you .
thank you .
this is a representation of your brain . your brain can be divided into two halves .
that &apos;s the left half , which is the logical side , and then the right half , which is the intuitive side .
then , of course , there &apos;s all the co2 from this material that ends up in the atmosphere .
if we had a scale to measure the aptitute of every hemisphere , we could represent your brain .
for example , that would be somebody who is completely logical .
this would be somebody who is completely intuitive .
now , where would you position your brain at this scale ?
some of us may have decided to do one of these extremes , but i think for most people in the audience , your brain looks something like this -- with a high aptitute , which is at the same time in both hemisphere .
it &apos;s not like they &apos;re both exclusive or something like that .
they can be logical and intuitive .
and so i think of myself as one of the people , along with most other experimental quantum physicists , who need a good percentage of logic to put together the complex ideas .
but at the same time , we need a good percentage of intuition to actually do the experiments .
how do we develop this intuition ? well , we love to play with things .
it &apos;s interesting .
we have now , from our discoveries around the world , a database of about 20 million genes , and i want to believe that these are the design components of the future .
so we go out and we play with it , and then we look at how it responds , and then we start to develop our intuition .
basically , they do the same thing .
so one of the intuitions that they &apos;ve developed over the years is probably that a thing can only be in a place at the same time .
i mean , it can sound strange to think that one thing is at the same time in two different places , but they were not born with this idea ; they developed it .
i remember seeing a child play on a floor threshold .
he was a little kid , and he wasn &apos;t very good at it , and he was falling all the time .
but i bet that playing with the ground threshold taught him a very valuable lesson , which is that big things don &apos;t just leave you by , and they stay in a place .
and this is a great conceptual model of the world , as long as they &apos;re not a particle physicist .
it would be a terrible model for a particle physicist , because they don &apos;t play with soil swells , they play with these little strange particles .
and when you play with your particles , you find all sorts of weird things -- how you fly directly through walls , or that you can be in two different places at the same time .
the electronics industry had a dozen components , and look at the diversity that came out of it .
and so they wrote down all these observations , and they called the theory of quantum mechanics .
that was the state of physics a few years ago ; it took quantum mechanics to describe the little , tiny particles .
but it didn &apos;t take them to describe the great everyday objects around us .
that didn &apos;t like my intuition , and maybe it &apos;s just because i don &apos;t play with particles so often .
well , i sometimes play with them , but not very often .
and i &apos;ve never seen them .
i mean , nobody has ever seen a particle .
but my logical side didn &apos;t like it either .
because if all these things are made out of particles , and all these particles follow the rules of quantum mechanics , shouldn &apos;t they just follow all the rules of quantum mechanics ?
i don &apos;t see why it shouldn &apos;t be that way .
we &apos;re primarily hitting the limits of biological reality and the ones of our imagination .
so i would feel stronger about the whole thing , if we could somehow show that everyday objects also follow the rules of quantum mechanics .
so a few years ago , i went to do that .
i created one .
this is the first object you can see , which was in the quantum mechanical superposition .
so what we &apos;re looking at here is a tiny computer chip .
and you can see this green dot there in the middle .
this is the piece of metal that i &apos;m going to talk about in a moment .
this is a picture of the object .
here i &apos;m going to make it a little bit bigger . we &apos;re looking right at the center here .
and here &apos;s a really big close-up of this little piece of metal .
we have technologies today because of these fast synthesia methods to do what we call combinatorial genetics .
so what we &apos;re looking at is a little piece of metal that &apos;s shaped like a springboard , and it &apos;s over the edge .
so i made this thing in a similar way that you make a computer chip .
i went a clean space with new silicon slices , and i refined for 100 hours to all the big devices .
for the last bit , i had to build my own machine -- to get this like a swimming pool shaped hole and this thing .
this thing has the ability to be in the quantum mechanical superposition , but it takes a little help to do it .
look , let me give you an analogy .
you know how uncomfortable it is to be in a full elevator ?
i mean , if i &apos;m alone in the elevator , i do all kinds of weird things , but then other people get up , and i stop doing all these things because i don &apos;t want to bother them , or , frankly , they go away .
so quantum mechanics says that unmovable objects feel the same way .
the fellow riders for intractable objects are not just human beings , but also the light that shines upon them and the wind that blows past them and the heat of space .
we now have the ability to build a large robot that can make millions of chromosomes a day .
and so we knew that if we wanted to see that this piece of metal behaves quantum mechanically , we had to throw out all the contributors .
and then we did .
we turned off the lights , we put it in a vacuum , and we sucked out all the air , and we cooled it up until almost now , all alone in the elevator , the piece of metal was free to behave as much as it wanted .
so we measured his movement .
we found that it &apos;s really weird to move .
instead of it just lying there , it vibrated . the way it vibrated was kind of like this -- like a stretching and mudging bubble together .
in which we gave him a little push , we were able to vibrate it at the same time and not vibrate -- something that is only allowed in quantum mechanics .
so what i &apos;m telling you right now is what &apos;s really fantastic .
what does it mean to vibrate and not vibrate for an object at the same time ?
let &apos;s think about atoms .
if you imagine making these 20 million different genes , or optimizing these processes to make octan , or drugs new vaccines , we can change more molecular biology with a small team than the last 20 years of science .
so the first case : all the trillions of atoms that are made of the piece of metal are still there , and at the same time , the same atoms are moving up and down .
just too precise time points , they agree .
the rest of the time , they &apos;re dolphined .
that means that every atom at the same time is in two different places , which means that the whole piece of metal is in two different places .
i think that &apos;s really cool .
really .
that was worth me for all this year in the clean room , because , check this out , the difference between a single atom and this piece of metal is about the same as the difference between the piece of metal and you .
so if a single atom can be at the same time in two different places , this piece of metal can be in two different places , why not you ?
i mean , that &apos;s just what my logical side says .
so , imagine if you were at the same time in several places , how would that feel ?
and it &apos;s just selection . we can select for life , production of chemicals , or fuel production , vaccine production and so on .
how would your mind be about your body being delocalized in the room ?
there &apos;s another aspect of the story .
when we warmed it up , and we turned on the lights , and we looked in the box , we saw that the piece of metal was always there in a piece .
and so i had to develop this new intuition that it looks like all the objects in the elevator are actually just quantum objects that are made together in a small room .
you hear a lot of talk about how quantum mechanics says everything is connected to everything .
well , that &apos;s not quite right .
there &apos;s more to it , it goes even deeper .
it &apos;s like these connections , their connections with all the things around them , literally define who they are , and that &apos;s the profound and strange of quantum mechanics .
thank you .
in 2007 , i decided that we should reconceptualize how we think about economic development .
this is a recording of actual design software that we &apos;re working on , that you can actually sit down and design new species on the computer .
it should be our goal that if families think about where they want to live and work , they will be able to choose between at least one hand of different cities , all competing for new residents .
at the moment , we are far from this goal .
there are billions of people in the developing world who are not even available to a single city that they would welcome .
but the amazing thing about cities is that they &apos;re so much more valuable than it costs to build them .
so we could just take the world very easily with duzende , maybe even hundreds of new cities .
now this may sound absurd for you , as far as you &apos;ve never thought about new cities .
just swap out the building of apartments against the cities .
imagine that half the people who want to live in apartments have done this already ; half of them don &apos;t yet .
you could try to expand the capacity of the existing apartments .
but you know what they &apos;re going to get into , in these apartments and their environment , laws to avoid and to distract degradation .
you know , we don &apos;t necessarily know what it &apos;s going to look like . we know exactly what their genetic code is going to look like .
so it turns out to be very hard to get out of all these extensions .
but you could go to a whole new place , build a whole new block of housing , provided that the laws there would support that kind of building and not prevent it .
so i proposed that governments create new areas that provide enough space for a city and gave them a name : charter cities .
later , i found that about the same time , ja4 and octavio , were thinking about the challenge of reform in honduras .
they knew that every year , about 75,000 hondurans left their country to go to the united states , and they wanted to know what they could do to make sure that these people could stay in their country and do exactly the same thing in honduras .
at this point , ja4 said to octavio , &quot; what happens if we take an unsettled area of our country -- what if we just give them a message -- a part of the american embassy ; a part of the canadian bottleneck , and if people want to work under the canadian rules or the united states , they can work there , and they can do anything on the surface of these messages , which they usually have to go to canada or america ? &quot;
in the summer of 2009 , honduras suffered from a severe constitution crisis .
in the next planning elections , pepe lobo won in a turnaround that program promised both innovations and simplification .
he asked octavio to become his steep .
in the meantime , i was preparing for a talk at tedglobal .
we &apos;re now focusing on fuels of the fourth generation .
by improving , trying and studying consumers , i &apos;ve tried to reduce this complicated concept of charter city to the basic elements .
the first point is the importance of laws , laws that determine that you can &apos;t disturb existing housing owners .
we pay a lot of new technology , but for progress , it needs technology and laws , and it &apos;s usually for laws that keep us back .
in the fall of 2010 , a friend of guatemala octavio sent the link to the tedtalk .
he again showed him ja4 .
they called me up .
and they said , &quot; let &apos;s present this to the chairman of our country ! &quot;
so in december , we met in the meeting room of a hotel in miami .
i &apos;ve tried to make it clear how valuable cities are , how much more valuable they are than they cost .
and i used this graph to show how valuable rohland is in a place like new york , and remember that in some cases , a surface is worth thousands of dollars per square meter .
we have to deal with the unstoppable separation of death , and so it shouldn &apos;t surprise us all to sing , dancing and art .
if i asked you to count the great world religions , what would you say ?
you &apos;ve seen corn to ethanol recently , which is just a bad experiment .
but it was a pretty abstract discussion , in a place when there was a pause , octavio said , &quot; paul , maybe we could look at the tedtalk . &quot;
so the tedtalk represented in a very simple form that a charter city is a place whose early uninhabited country , a founding contract that determines the laws that are there , and the people are willing to decide either to live under those rules or not .
that &apos;s why i was asked by the president of honduras , who meant that we have to do this project , that it &apos;s important , and that this is the way we &apos;re going to move our country forward .
i was asked to come to tegucigalpa and give a talk again on january four and fifth .
so i gave another talk with facts filled , which includes a graph like this , which tries to illustrate that if you want to make a lot of value in a city , it has to be a very large city .
this is a picture of the city of denver , and the sketch is the new airport that was built in denver .
just that airport has a surface of 100 square kilometers .
so i &apos;ve tried to convince the hondurans , if you want to build a new city , you have to start with an area of at least 1,000 square kilometers .
that &apos;s more than 250 thousand acres .
politely , everybody applauded .
we have fuels of the second and third generation that are going to come out pretty soon that will have much higher sugar scores , like octan or different kinds of butanol .
the audience &apos;s faces were very serious and careful .
the head of congress came up and said , &quot; professor romer , thank you very much for your talk , but maybe we could look at the tedtalk .
i have it here on my laptop . &quot;
so i sat down , and they played the tedtalk .
and i &apos;ve come to the core point that a new city offers new possibilities to people .
there would be the opportunity to live in a city that would be in honduras , rather than hundreds of miles away in the north .
and a new city includes new opportunities for leaders as well .
the leaders of the government in honduras would depend on the help of partnerships , they could benefit from their partner countries , which they would support when they set up the laws for this charter and for the demonstration that everybody can actually trust the charter .
and the realization of president lobo was that the certainty of the implementation that i thought about as a way to get the foreign investors to come and build this city could be equally significant for all the parties in honduras that have been suffering from fear and suspicion for many years .
we went to an area .
but , as we think , the only way that biology is going to have a huge impact on the cost of food or the limitation of its availability is when we see co2 as a source material , and so we work on cells that go this way .
this picture is from this place .
it &apos;s got to get a thousand square miles .
and shortly after that , on january 19th , they voted to congress for a change in constitution to have a comprehensive regime that is reliable for particular development areas .
in a country that has just been on a massive crisis , in which congress has been elected for this change in comprehension with 124 to a voice .
all the parties , all the fractions of society , supported this .
in order to become part of the constitution , it has to be approved twice by congress .
on february 17th , it was approved with 114 to a voice .
immediately after that election , between the 21st and the 24th of february , a delegation of about 30 famines traveled to the two places in the world that were most interested in going into the business of the city hall .
the one place is south korea .
this is a picture of a big , new city hall built in south korea -- big one as the city around bostons .
and we think that we will be the first to fuel the fourth generation , and that will be in about 18 months .
everything you can see in this picture was built within four years , after it took four years to get the permits .
the other place that was very interested in urban building is singapore .
it &apos;s already built two cities in china , and the third one is in preparation .
so if you &apos;re thinking about it , it &apos;s basically where we are today .
they already have a building site , and they &apos;re already mentioning this area for the second city .
it &apos;s already been working on a legal system that allows managers to participate , and it &apos;s also working on an external legal system .
a country has already offered to provide its supreme court as a court for the degrading appeal of the legal system there .
urban designers and builders are very interested .
they even bring in funding .
one of the things that you already know has been resolved , there are many rents .
sunlight and co2 are a method .
there are a lot of businesses that would like to engage in america , especially in a place with a free trade zone , and there are a lot of people who would like to live there .
around the world , there are 700 million people who claim that they would like to live permanently in a different place .
a million people go out of latin america every year and go to the united states .
many of them are fathers who are forced to leave their families to look for work -- sometimes they &apos;re single mothers who have to make enough money to be able to afford food and clothing .
unfortunately , sometimes it &apos;s even kids who are trying to find their parents that they , in some cases , haven &apos;t seen for a decade .
so what is it for an idea to think about this in honduras to build a whole new city ?
or even building duzende of these cities , or giving hundreds of them around the world ?
so what is it for an idea to insist that every family has a choice between multiple cities that are competing for new residents ?
that &apos;s an idea worth spreading .
my friends from honduras asked me to say , thank you ted .
but in our discovery of the world , we have all sorts of different methods .
do you know how many decisions you make on a typical day ?
do you know how many decisions you make in a typical week ?
i made a poll with over 2,000 americans recently , and the average number of decisions that anxiety makes a typical american on a day is 70 .
also , a recent study was done with ceos , where they saw the ceos for a week .
and these scientists have simply documented the various topics that this ceo is dealing with , and how much time they spent making decisions that are related to the topics .
and they found that an average ceo is dealing with 139 tasks in the week .
each of these themes , of course , was made up of many , many smaller decisions .
50 percent of their decisions were made in nine minutes or less .
only for about 12 percent of their decisions , they took an hour or more of their time .
think about your own decisions .
this is an organism that we described in 1996 .
do you know how many decisions you make in the nine minutes of category versus the one hour of category ?
how good do you think you &apos;re at overwhelming the decisions ?
today i want to talk about one of the biggest decision-making problems of our modern time , the decision-making overlap problem .
i want to talk about the problem and some possible solutions .
now , when i talk about this problem , i &apos;m going to ask you some questions , and i want to know your answers .
if i ask you a question , raise your hand , because i &apos;m blind , just your hand , if you want to burn some calories .
otherwise , i ask you , if i ask you a question , and your answer is yes , so my first question for today is , are you ready to hear something about the decision-making problem ?
thank you .
when i was a graduate student at stanford , i went to this very exclusive grocery store , at least at the time he was really exclusive .
it was a store called draeger &apos;s .
it lives in the deep sea , about a mile and a half deep , at almost boiling water temperatures .
this business , it was almost like a pleasure park .
they had 250 different kinds of mustard and essive and over 500 different kinds of fruit and vegetables and more than two dozen different kinds of water -- and that was at a time when we actually drunk water .
i loved going to this store , but at a time i was wondering , well , how come you never buy anything ?
here &apos;s the olive oil .
they had over 75 different kinds of olive oil , including those who were locked in boxes that came from a thousand year-old olive trees .
so one day , i decided to go to the filialleiter , and i asked the ladder , &quot; does this model work that you really offer people all these possibilities ? &quot;
and he pointed to the camps of tourists who came every day and used to have their cameras .
we decided to do an experiment , and we chose marmelade for our experiment .
here &apos;s your marshman &apos;s gang .
they had 348 different kinds of marmelade .
it turns co2 into methane , using hydrogen as a source of energy .
we set up a little costing layer right at the entrance of the business .
we put six different flavors of marmelade , or 24 different flavors of marmelade , and we looked at two things : one , i would say , what if more people were standing and trying marmelade ?
there are more people left when it was 24 , about 60 percent than if it was six , about 40 percent .
and after that , we looked at the case where people were more likely to buy a glass of marmelade .
now we saw the reverse effect .
of the people who stayed there when it was 24 , only three percent actually bought a glass of marmelade .
of the people who were left when it was six , well , now we saw that 30 percent of them actually bought a glass of marmelade .
now , if you do the math , people would buy six times more of a glass of marmelade , who they had six choices than if they had 24 choices .
now , to choose not to buy a glass of marmelade is probably good for us -- at least it &apos;s good for our waistline -- but it turns out that the decision-making problem also affects us in very consequence decisions .
we don &apos;t choose to decide , even though it &apos;s against our own best interests .
we &apos;re looking at whether we can use stored co2 that could just be brought to production plans , converting the co2 into fuel to drive this process .
so to the theme of the day , financial savings .
now i &apos;m going to describe to you a study that i did with gur huberman , emir kamenica , wei jang , where we &apos;re going to save the decisions for the retirement of almost a million americans from about 650 plans in the entire united states .
and what we looked at was whether the number of subscribers that were possible for a retirement plan , the 401 plan , affects the probability of saving more for tomorrow .
and we found that there was actually a relationship .
so in these plans , we had about 657 plans that offered people anything between two and 59 different fund .
and what we found was that the more fund we were offered , that , in fact , the less the participation rate was .
now , if you look at the extremes , the plans , the two fund offers , had a paragraph in the &apos; 70s -- still not as high as we want .
in the plans that offered almost 60 fund , the participants now dropped to about the sixth percent .
now it turns out that even if you decide to participate , if there were more choices to choose , even then it has negative consequences .
so the people who decided to participate , rather , the more possibilities they could have , the more they rented it to actien and fund it .
christianity , islam , buddhism , judaism , whatever .
within a short period of time , we think we could be able to solve one of the fundamental questions of life .
the more options they were available , the more they put their entire money into pure money market accounts .
none of these extreme decisions belong to the decisions that someone would recommend from people if we care about their future financial well-being .
now , in the last 10 years , we &apos;ve seen three key negative consequences in humans that are providing more and more choices .
they &apos;re pushing the decision -- push up , even if it &apos;s against their own best interest .
they make worse decisions -- worse financial and worse medical decisions .
they rather choose for things that they make themselves less happy , even if they make it objective .
the main reason for this is that maybe we enjoy these huge shelves full of mayonaise , mustard , essive and marmelade , but we can &apos;t actually take the comparison and the boundaries , and then actually choose something from the fantastic deal .
so what i want to suggest to you today is four simple techniques -- techniques that we &apos;ve tested in different ways and different research places -- that you can just apply in your business .
first of all , limited .
you &apos;ve heard it before , but it &apos;s never been more true than today , that less is .
you know , we really have -- moderate targets like replacing the entire petrochemical industry . right . if you can &apos;t do that at ted , where else ? become a main source of energy .
people are always worried when i say , &quot; limited . &quot;
they &apos;re always worried that they &apos;re losing regalal area .
but in fact , we see it more and more , that if you &apos;re willing to constrain yourself , and the unimportant equalities get rid of , well , then there &apos;s a increase in sales , there &apos;s a lower cost , there &apos;s a r &amp; amp ; d , and there &apos;s an improvement in decision-making .
when proctor and gamble reduced the different head and shoulder species from 26 to 15 , they experienced an increase in sales by 10 percent .
when the golden cat corporation got rid of its 10 worst sold cat diffuses , they found that the profits were up by 87 percent -- a result of both the sales and the increase in sales and the reducing of cost .
you know , the average supermacrt today offers you 45,000 products .
a typical walmart offers you 100,000 products today .
but the ninth largest supermarket , the ninth largest supermarket in the world today is aldi , and they only offer them 1,400 products -- a kind of tomato sauce in doses .
now , in the world of savings , i think one of the best examples that has recently come to the market , about how to best mandate the choice , was something that david laibson has designed a lot , which is a program that is offered at harvard .
every single harvard worker is now automatically part of a life fund .
but in the same way , we &apos;re working on using the same approaches for developing vaccines .
those who really want to make a choice are offered 20 fund , not 300 or more fund .
you know , as people often say , &quot; i don &apos;t know how to limit it .
it &apos;s all important possibilities . &quot;
and the first thing i ask the question is , &quot; tell me how the possibilities are different from each other .
and if their employees can &apos;t keep them apart , their customers can &apos;t . &quot;
now , before we started lunch , i had a conversation with gary .
and gary said that he would be willing to offer all the people in this audience an all-inclusive vacation to the most beautiful street in the world .
here &apos;s a description of the street .
and i &apos;d like to read them to you .
and now i &apos;ll give you a couple of seconds to read them , and then i &apos;ll ask them to clap if they &apos;re willing to take gary &apos;s offering .
you saw it this year with the flu , we &apos;re always a year in the back , and we have a dollar too little when it comes to the right vaccine .
okay . anyone who &apos;s willing to take gary &apos;s offer .
are they all ?
all right , let me show you a little bit more of that .
they knew it was a trick , right ?
now , who &apos;s ready for this journey .
i think i may have heard more hands .
all right .
the fact is that they were objectively looking at , the first time they had more information than the second time , but i would like to guess they thought it was more real in the second time .
because the images made it feel real for them .
which brings me to the second technology that helps them deal with the problem of decision-making overlap , which is concretization .
i think that can be changed by creating recombined vaccines in advance .
it &apos;s about people , to understand the difference between possibilities , to understand what the consequences are associated with the individual possibilities , and that these consequences need to be vivid and concrete .
why do people spend 15 to 30 percent more on average when they use an ec-map or a credit card than they do with barmoney ?
because it doesn &apos;t feel real money .
and it turns out that when you make it feel concrete , it &apos;s a very good tool to get people to save more .
so we did a study that i did with shlomo benartzi and alessandro advantage tero , and we did a study with the people at ing -- employees who all worked for ing -- and these people were all in a gathering where they signed their participation for their retirement plan .
and during that gathering , we &apos;ve left that gathering just as it was always , but we &apos;ve added a little bit to it .
the smallness that we added was that we asked people to just think of all the positive things that would happen in their lives if they save money .
in which we did this simple thing , there was an increase in participation by 20 percent , and there was an increase in the number of people who were willing to save , or an increase in four percent in the amount that they were willing to pay for the savings account .
the third technology : categorization .
we can deal with more categories than with more choices .
that &apos;s what the future might look like with changes , can today accelerate the evolutionary tree with synthetic bacteria , archaas , and perhaps eukaryonts .
for example , here &apos;s a study that we did in a magazine walk .
it turns out that in the way supermarkets are up and down in the northeast area , it varies between 331 different kinds of magazines up to 64 magazines .
but you know what ?
if i show you 600 magazines , and i divide them into 10 categories , or i show you 400 magazines , and i split them into 20 categories , you think i &apos;ve given you more choice and a better choice than i would have given you the 400 to what if i had given you the 600 .
because the categories tell me how to tell them apart .
here are two different jewelry .
one is called &quot; jazz , &quot; and the other is called &quot; swing . &quot;
if you think the left ad is swing , and the ad on the right is jazz , you clap your hands .
okay , there &apos;s a couple .
if you think the one on the left is jazz , and the one on the right is swing , please clap .
we are removed from light years from improving people . our goal is just that we have a chance to survive long enough to possibly do that . thank you very much .
okay , a few more .
well , it turns out they &apos;re right .
the one on the left is jazz , and the one on the right is swing , but you know what ?
this is a highly unuseful category .
the categories have to tell the selection , not the one that provides the choice .
and you often see this problem when you look at the long lists of all these fund .
who do you want to inform with this ?
my fourth technology : anticipation for complexity .
it turns out that we can actually deal with more information than we think , we just need to simplify it .
we need to slowly increase complexity .
at the last ted conference , i gave an introduction to the lhc .
i &apos;ll show you an example of what i mean .
let &apos;s take a very , very complicated decision : the purchase of a car .
here &apos;s a german car manufacturer who gives you the opportunity to completely configure your car .
you have to make 62 different decisions to completely design your car .
now these decisions are different from the number of choices that they offer per decision .
car colors , outcolor of the car -- i have 56 possibilities .
motors , gears -- four possibilities .
so what i do now is i change the order in which the decisions appear .
half of the customers are going to go from the many possibilities , 56 car colors to the low possibilities , four gears .
the other half of the customers go from the low possibilities , four gears , to the 56 car colors , many possibilities .
and i promised to come back to tell you how the machine works .
what do i look at ?
how interested you are .
if you &apos;re constantly using the standard choice in the decision , it means that you &apos;re overwhelmed , the healthiest , i lose it .
what they find is that the people who go from the many to the low possible ponds over and over and over again , choose the standard choice .
we lose them .
go from the little choice to the many , then stay with it .
it &apos;s the same information . it &apos;s the same number of possibilities .
the only thing i &apos;ve done is to change the order in which this information is presented .
when i start with the simple one , i learn how to choose .
even though the gear selects , nothing about my preferences in interior equipment says , it still prepare me to choose .
so , it &apos;s that far . and for those of you who weren &apos;t there at the time , the lhc is the biggest scientific experiment ever done -- 27 kilometers in diameter .
it also excites me about the big product that i put together , and so i &apos;m willing to be motivated to be with interest .
let me wrap up .
i told you about four techniques that mimic the problem of decision-making overlap -- limited -- get rid of the excess alternatives ; concrete -- make it real ; categorize -- we can do better with more categories , less possibilities ; prepare for complexity .
each of these techniques that i describe to you today is thought to help you manage the possibilities -- good for you , you can use them for yourself , good for the people you provide service .
because i think the key to the best possible choice is that you &apos;re picky in the selection .
and the more we &apos;re selective , the better we will be able to practice the art of choice .
thank you .
hi . i &apos;m kevin allocca , trends-manager at youtube . i look at youtube videos .
that &apos;s true .
today we want to talk about how video becomes viral , and then we want to talk about why it &apos;s important at all .
a continent is always left out , because the guess was that in sub-saharan africa , there was no religious faith , and of course there was one , and voodoo is simply the remaining of these very profound religious thoughts that came through during the tragic diaspora of slavery time .
his job is to create the conditions that existed less than a billionth of a second after the universe started -- and up to 600 million times in a second .
we all want to be stars -- celebrities , singers , comedians -- when i was young , it seemed so infinite .
but web videos have enabled us all , or all of our creative activities , to be insanely famous in a part of the culture of our world .
every single one of you could be famous about the internet until next saturday .
but in youtube , more than 48 hours of video is uploaded every minute .
again , only a tiny percentage of it is ever viral and is being looked at thousands of times and so on to the cultural moment .
so how does this work ?
three things : tastemaker , participation communities and the unexpected .
well , then we want to .
oh my god . oh my god .
oh my god !
it &apos;s just breathtaking ambitious .
whoa !
ohhhh , wowwwwww !
last year , bear vasquez sent this video that he had filmed in front of his house in yosemite national park .
in 2010 , it had been looked at 23 million times .
this graph shows what it looked like when the video was first popular last summer .
actually , bear didn &apos;t want to make a viral video .
he just wanted to share a rainbow .
because that &apos;s what you do when you &apos;re called yosemite mountain bear .
he had uploaded a lot of natural videos .
and this video was actually sent in january .
this is the machine below geneva .
what happened here ?
there was jimmy kimmel .
jimmy kimmel sent the tweet , who ended up making the video so popular .
because tastemaker like jimmy kimmel introduces us to new and interesting things and show a big audience .
it &apos;s friday , friday . gotta get down on friday . everybody &apos;s looking forward to the weekend , weekend . friday , friday . gettin &apos;down on friday . you wouldn &apos;t have thought we were going to have this conversation without talking about this video , i hope .
rebecca blacks &quot; friday &quot; is one of the most popular videos of the year .
it &apos;s been looked at almost 200 million times this year .
this is what the graphics looked like .
just like &quot; double rainbow , &quot; it seems to have come out of nowhere .
what happened that day ?
we take pictures of these mini-big bang in detectors .
well , it was friday , that &apos;s true .
if you want to know it , these other spikes are also fridays .
but what about that day , that particular friday ?
now , tosh.0 gave up , a lot of blogs started writing about it .
michael j. nelson of the mystery science theater was one of the first to make a joke on twitter .
what &apos;s important is that a single person or group of tastemakers took a standpoint , shared a big audience , and then accelerated the process .
then this community of people who shared this big insider joke started talking about it and playing around with it .
now there are 10,000 parodies of friday at youtube .
in the first seven days , there was a parody for every single week .
unlike the one-page conversation of the 20th century , the participation of the community is our way of becoming part of this phenomenon -- either by spreading it or making something new .
i work on this . he calls himself atlas detector -- 44 meters wide , 22 meters in diameter .
&quot; nyan cat &quot; is animation and music in endless loop .
that &apos;s it , very simple .
this year , it &apos;s been looked at almost 50 million times .
and if you think that &apos;s crazy , you should know that there &apos;s a three-hour version of it that &apos;s been looked at four million times .
even cats look at this video .
cats are looking at cats that are looking at this video .
what &apos;s important is the creativity that &apos;s in the internet culture of techie and geeks .
there was remixes .
somebody made an old-fashioned version of it .
and then it became international .
here &apos;s a spectacular image of the atlas in the construction so you can see the scale .
a whole remix community shot out of the ground that made it from a stupid joke to something that we can all participate in .
today , we don &apos;t just find pleasure in something , we do with it .
who could have anticipated this ?
who could have predicted double rainbow or rebecca black or nyan cat ?
what are the scripts that you could have written in which this is what ?
in a world where every minute you upload two days of video , there can only be really unique and unexpected video .
i admit , i was not particularly interested when a friend told me to look at this great video , about a guy protesting for bicycles in new york .
i got a ticket because i didn &apos;t go on the bike path , but often there are disabilities that don &apos;t let you drive on the bike path .
since this was completely surprising and humorous , casey niestats &apos;s funny idea and his argument was looked at five million times .
this approach is true for anything new that we do creatively .
on september 10 , last year , the machine went on for the first time .
and that all leads us to the one big question ...
what does that mean ?
ohhh .
what does that mean ?
tastemaker , creative participants , totally unexpected , are the characteristics of a new kind of media and culture that everybody has access to , and where the audience is popularity .
as i said , one of the greatest stars right now -- justin bieber -- made his start with youtube .
no one has to give light to your ideas .
and today , we all feel ourselves as owners of our pop culture .
and these aren &apos;t the characteristics of the old media , and they &apos;re also barely true of the media of today , but they &apos;re going to determine the conversation of the future .
thank you .
and this picture was taken by atlas .
the story is not over yet .
it &apos;s a puzzle that &apos;s still put together .
i want to tell you about some of the puzzles .
imagine the first piece : a man who burns his life &apos;s work .
he &apos;s a poet , a writer , a man whose whole life has been held together by the simple hope of oneness and freedom of his home .
keep it in mind at the march of the communicators in saigon , as he has to admit that his life had been a single waste .
the words , as long as his friends , were now spotting his .
he moved back to silence .
he died , broken by history .
it caused immense jubel in the control room .
he &apos;s my grandfather .
i never met him personally .
but our lives are so much more than our memories .
my grandmother never let me forget his life .
i had to make sure that it wasn &apos;t free , and it was my job to learn that the story was trying to crush us , but we were over it .
the next piece of the puzzle shows how a boat is running in the early morning red quiet at sea .
my mother mai was 18 when her father died -- already in an arranged marriage , already with two little girls .
for her , life had done a task for her : the escape of her family and a new life in australia .
it was completely excluded that it could fail .
after a four-year-old and filmmaker saga glitt , a boat still on the lake as a fishing boat .
it &apos;s a picture of the first radiation particle that laid the entire distance around the lhc , then , intentionally , collided with a part of the lhc to put a rain of particles on the detector .
all adults were aware of the risks .
they were scared of pirates , rape and death .
like most adults on the boat , my mother was carrying a little poison bottle .
in a prisoner &apos;s reception , my sister and i , would have drank her and my grandmother .
my first memories are of this boat -- the steady tuckers of the engine , the clapping of any wave on the bug , the long and empty horizon .
i don &apos;t remember the pirates that came in many times , but they were deceived by the death courage of the men on our boat , or the deterioration of the engine that six hours didn &apos;t want to start .
but i remember the lights of the oil platform off the malayan coast , and the young man who collapsed and died , the end of the journey was too much for him , and the taste of the first apple that one of the men gave me on the platform .
no apple ever tasted that way again .
after three months in a refugee camp , we ended up in melbourne .
and the next piece of puzzle is about four women in three generations together to build a new life .
but what makes voodoo so interesting is this vivid relationship between the living and the dead .
in other words , when we saw this picture on september 10 , we knew that the machine works , which is a big triumph .
we settled on footscray , one of the working-class suburbs that &apos;s made up of immigrant layers .
unlike in the ancient middle class suburbs , whose existence was completely unknown to me , there was no sophistication in footscray .
the scaffolds from the ladages came from the rest of the world .
and the fetuses were traded in english between people who had one thing in common : they started to reboot .
my mother worked on farms , then a assembly line in a car factory , six days , double-layers .
she somehow managed to find the time to acquire english and it qualifications .
we were poor .
every dollar was given and was put into more education for english and mathematics , no matter what we had to avert for , and most of the time , the new things that were coming out of the second hand .
two strands for school , each to cover the holes in the other .
a school uniform to the buttons , because it had to pass six years .
i don &apos;t know if this created the biggest jubel , or this , when someone went to the google page and found the front page like this .
and there were the rare but painful choirs of &quot; bad eye , &quot; and here and there are mural paintings : &quot; asians , go home . &quot;
where do you go home ?
something got inside of me .
there was a meeting for reconciliation , and a quiet voice said , &quot; i &apos;m going to go out of your way . &quot;
my mother , my sister and i slept in the same bed .
my mother was exhausted every night , but we told each other about our day , and we listened to the movements of our grandmother in the house .
my mother suffered from the boat on nightmares .
and it was my job to stay awake every night until their nightmares came so i could wake them up .
she opened up a computer business , then did a cosmetic education and opened a business .
and the women came with their stories about men who didn &apos;t make change , angry and unflexible , and carefully filled kids , trapped between two worlds .
it means that we have a cultural impact on the scientific impact .
loans and sponsors were searched .
centers have been built up .
i lived in parallel worlds .
in one , i was the classic asian student who was making inexorable demands for himself .
in the other , i was involved in unsafe life , wearing the tragic scars of violence , the drug abuse and insulation .
but so many got help over the years .
and because of this help , i was chosen in my last year of law school as a young australian of the year .
and i was catapulted by a piece of puzzle to the next , and the edges didn &apos;t fit together .
tan le , anonymous inhabitant of footscray , was now tan le , refugee and social activist , who was invited to speak to places that she had never heard of , and in housing , whose existence she could never have imagined .
i was not familiar with the label .
about a week later , there was a problem with the machine that had to do with these wires here -- these golden wires here .
i didn &apos;t know how to use the brick .
i didn &apos;t know how to talk about wine .
i didn &apos;t know how to talk about anything .
i wanted to go back to the routine and the convenience of the life of an unknown suburb -- a grandmother , a mother and two daughters who have closed every one of their days as they &apos;ve been for 20 years , by telling each other the stories of their day and asleep , we &apos;re still in the same bed .
i told my mother i couldn &apos;t do that .
she reminded me that i was now as old as she was when we climbed the boat .
no had never been a chance .
&quot; just do it , &quot; she said . &quot; and don &apos;t be what you &apos;re not . &quot;
so i talked about juggling and education , and the neglect of the marginalized and disenfranchised .
and the more i spoke , the more i should tell .
these wires are 13-thousand ampere when the machine is running on high performance .
i met people in all of their lives , so many of them did what they loved , lived on the limits of the possible .
and even though i graduated , i realized that i couldn &apos;t find myself with a career in jura .
there had to be another piece of puzzle .
and i realized at the same time that it &apos;s okay to be an outsider , a newcomer , new in the image -- and not just okay , but something to be grateful for , maybe a gift of the boat .
because belonging can lead so easily to the collapse of the horizon , it can mean so easily that you accept the assumptions of the environment .
now i &apos;ve gone enough out of my comfort zone to know that , yes , the world collapses , but not the way you fear it .
possibilities that would not have been allowed have been explicitly encouraged .
there was an energy , an inexorable optimism , a strange mixture of humility and wagnish .
so i followed my gut feeling .
i collected a small team of people around me , who the box &quot; is not going to be an unresistant challenge .
now , the engineers amongst you will look at you and say , &quot; no , you don &apos;t . these are little wires . &quot;
we didn &apos;t have a cent for a year .
at the end of a day , i cook a huge pot of soup that we shared .
we worked late at night .
most of our ideas were crazy , but it was a few brilliant people , and we made the breakthrough .
i made the decision to go to the united states .
after just a journey there .
my gut feeling again .
three months later , i was moved , and the adventure continued .
before i finish the talk , i want to tell you about my grandmother .
she grew up at a time when confucianism was the social norm , and the local mandarin was the most important person .
they can do that because if you cool them down very far , they become so-called superconductors .
life hadn &apos;t changed for centuries .
her father died shortly after her birth .
her mother was raising her own .
at 17 , she became the second woman of a mandarin whose mother beat her .
without her husband &apos;s support , she cared for a conversation by bringing him to the court , and she was a proclaimer in her own case , and a bigger sensation than she won .
&quot; don &apos;t go , &quot; it turned out to be untrue .
i was shooting in a hotel room in sydney when she died , 1,000 miles away in melbourne .
i looked through the canvas , and i saw them standing on the other side .
i knew she had come to say goodbye .
my mother called me a few minutes after that .
so at minus 271 degrees , colder than the room between the stars , these wires can hold the tension .
a few days later , we went to a buddhist temple in footscray and sat around their coffin .
we told her stories , and we made sure that we were still with her .
at midnight , the monk came and said he had to close the coin .
my mother asked us to touch her hand .
she asked the monk , &quot; why is your hand so warm and the rest of her is so cold ? &quot;
&quot; because they &apos;ve been holding them since this morning , &quot; he said .
&quot; they didn &apos;t let them go . &quot;
if there is a band in our family , it goes through the women .
you can see who we were , and how life shaped us , we can now see that the men who might have come to our lives would have come to our way .
the defeat would have been too simple .
in one of the connections , between over nine thousand magnets in the lhc , there was a factory turfing .
now i &apos;d like to have my own kids , and i think about the boat .
who would ever want one ?
yes , i &apos;m afraid of privilege , of ease , of justice .
can i give you a bug in your life that is courageously debrating every wave , the unbiased , steady tuckers of the engine , the wide horizon , that doesn &apos;t guarantee anything ?
i don &apos;t know .
but if i could give this and make it safe , i would do it .
also , tans &apos;s mother here today in the fourth or fifth row .
i &apos;m here to share my photography with you .
is it even photography ?
because , of course , this is a picture that you can &apos;t take with your camera .
and so the wires heated slightly and 13-thousand ampters suddenly encountered electrical resistance .
but my interest in photography , when i received my first digital camera , at the age of 15 .
i combined it with my former preferences for drawing , but it was a little bit different , because using the camera , the process was in planning .
and if you take a picture and you take a camera , the process ends when you press on the trigger .
so for me , photography seemed to be about being in the right place at the right time .
i thought everybody could do that .
so i wanted to create something else , something that the process starts when the trigger is pressed .
photos like this : a building site along a much traveled road .
but it has an unexpected twist .
and still hold a realistic level .
or photos like this -- dark and colorful at the same time , but all with the common goal of keeping a realistic level .
the living give birth to the spirits .
this was the result .
when i say reality , i mean photoreality .
because , of course , it &apos;s not something that you can really capture , but i always want to make it look like you could have done that in a photograph .
photos where you have to think for a moment to figure out the trick .
so it &apos;s more about capturing an idea than really a moment .
but what is the trick that makes it look realistic ?
is it about the details or the colors ?
is it about the light ?
what creates the illusion ?
sometimes the perspective is the illusion .
but ultimately , it &apos;s about how we interpret the world , and how it can be made tangible on a two-dimensional surface .
now , this is all even more amazing when you imagine that the magnets weigh over 20 tons and shifted by about 30 inches .
it &apos;s not about what is realistic , but what we think is realistic .
so i think the foundations are very simple .
i think of them as a puzzle of reality , where you can take different pieces and put them together to create an alternative reality .
and let me show you a simple example .
we have three perfectly imaginable physical objects that we can all identify with in a three-dimensional world .
but in a certain way , you can create something that still looks three-dimensional , as if it could exist .
but at the same time , we know that this is not possible .
so we &apos;re missing our brains , because our brain just doesn &apos;t accept that it doesn &apos;t really make sense .
and i see the same process in combining photos .
it &apos;s really just about combining different realities .
so we damaged about 50 of the magnets .
so the things that make a picture look realistic , i think it &apos;s the things that we don &apos;t think about , the things around us in our everyday lives .
but when we combine photographs , it &apos;s really important to think about it , because otherwise they just look kind of wrong .
so i would say that there are three simple rules to follow a realistic outcome .
as you can see , these are not three special images .
but combined , you can create something special like this .
so the first rule is that combined photos should have the same perspective .
secondly , combined photos should have the same lighting .
and these two images meet these two demands -- shot from the same altitude and the same type of illumination .
third , it &apos;s about making it impossible to tell where the individual images start and end by connecting them seamlessly .
it &apos;s impossible to say how the photo was actually put together .
and they had to remove it , which we did .
so by comparing color , contrast and brightness to the edges , the individual images , adding photographic lack , like field depth , degraded colors and disorders , we wipe the boundaries between the different images and let them look like a single photograph , even though a picture can basically hold hundreds of levels .
here &apos;s another example .
you might think that &apos;s just a landscape , and the bottom part was manipulated .
but this picture is actually completely composed of photographs of different places .
i personally find that it &apos;s easier to create a place than to find a place , because you don &apos;t have to compromise with the ideas in your head .
but it requires a lot of planning .
and when i had this idea in the winter , i knew that it took me several months to plan it , to find the different places for the pieces of the puzzle .
for example , the fish had been recorded on a screening trip .
the bank is from another place .
the underwater part comes from a quarry .
we repaired them , repaired them .
and yes , i even colored the house up on the island of red to make it look swedish .
so to get a realistic outcome , i think it &apos;s going to go out of my way to planning .
i always start with a sketch , an idea .
and then it &apos;s about the combination of the different images .
and here , every piece is very well-planned .
and when you make good images , the result can be pretty , and it can be pretty realistic .
so there are all the tools there , and the only thing that limics us is our imagination .
thank you .
i &apos;d like to talk to you about why so many electronic health projects fail .
and i think the most important thing is that we &apos;ve stopped talking to our patients .
they &apos;re all back on their way .
and one of the things that we introduced at the radboud university was to hire a major listener .
she doesn &apos;t do very scientifically -- she puts a cup of coffee or tea and asks the patients , families , relatives , &quot; how do you do ?
how can we help you ? &quot;
and we think we want to think that this is one of the main problems , why everyone -- maybe most of the electronic health projects fail , because we stopped listening .
this is my wlan-waage . it &apos;s a very simple thing .
she has a button , on / off .
and every morning , i jump on it .
and yes , i have a task , as you might recognize .
i &apos;ve done my job at 95 pounds .
it works very simply : every time i jump on the scale , it also sends my data to google health .
by the end of march , the lhc will be again functional .
and they &apos;re also called off my general physician , so that he can see where my weight problem is , not only in the moment that i need cardiological support or something , but also with a look at the past .
but there &apos;s something else .
maybe you know that , i have over 4,000 followers on twitter .
so every morning , i jump to my wlan-waage , and people talk to me before i sit in the car , &quot; for lunch , just a little salad today , lucien . &quot;
but this is the most net thing that can happen , because this is the group compulsion , group compulsion , to help patients , because this could be used for obesity , or it could be used for patients to smoke .
but it could also be used to get people out of their chairs , and get them to play some kind of game together to control their health better .
it &apos;s coming to the market next week .
there will be this little blood pressure detection device that you attach to an iphone or something .
and it will allow people to measure their blood pressure from home , send it to their doctor and share it with others , for a little over 100 dollars .
at this point , the patients come into play . not only can they take control of them , captain on their own ship , but they can also help us in the face of the challenges that are ahead of us , and the cost explosion of health care , double-demand , and so on .
we &apos;re going to turn it on , and we &apos;re going to expect the first data in june or july to collect , and continue our journey to figure out what the building blocks of the universe are .
make ways that are easy to use , and start with this , to hug patients in the team .
and they can do that through these methods , but also through crowdsourcing .
and one of the things we &apos;ve done is i want to share with you through a short video .
we have all the navigation systems in our cars .
maybe even in our cell phones .
we know exactly where all the atms are around maastricht .
we know one more thing where all the gas stations are .
and of course , we can find fast food chains .
but where would the next aed be to help this patient ?
we were asking around , and nobody knew .
now , of course , in a way that accidents , again , the debate around the value of science and engineering , is easy to reject this .
nobody knew where to find the next life-saving aed at that moment .
so what did we do ? we did crowdsourcing in the netherlands .
we built a website , and we asked a crowd of people , &quot; if you see an aed , please share with us where he is , when he has it , &quot; because sometimes he &apos;s closed during business , of course .
and over 10,000 aeds have already been reported in the netherlands .
the next step was to find the apps for this .
and we created an ipad app .
we &apos;ve developed an app for layar , augmented reality to find these aeds .
and if you &apos;re in a city like maastricht and someone breaks together , you can use your iphone , and in the next few weeks , your microsoftware cell phone to find the next aed that can save lives .
and from today , we want to do this not just as aed4u , as the product is called , but also as aed4us .
and we want to bring this to a global level .
i think the fact that it &apos;s so hard , the fact that we reach beyond our limits , is the value of things like the lhc .
and we ask our colleagues around the world , from other universities , to help us behave like nodes to crowdsource these aeds around the world .
and if you &apos;re on vacation and someone collapses , whether it &apos;s your own relatives or somebody else , you can find an aed like that .
the other thing we want to ask for is that companies around the world are helping us confirm these aeds .
these could be curicle services , or technicians , for example , just to make sure that the melted aed is still in its place .
please help us do this and try to not only improve health , but take control of health .
thank you .
today , i &apos;m going to report on unexpected discoveries .
i work in the solar technology industry .
and my little startup wants us to force ourselves to protect the environment by ...
... it &apos;s paying attention to crowdsourcing .
the spirits can be constrained by the great water , answers to the rhythm of the dance , to overwhelm the soul of the living , so that the acolyth can become a short shiny moment to god .
i &apos;m going to leave my final words to an english scientist . humphrey davy , who , as i suspect , defended the useless experiments of his apprentice , his apprentice was michael faraday , said this : &quot; nothing is so dangerous for the development of the human mind as assuming that our scientific ideas are final , that there are no mysteries in nature that our triumphh is complete , and that there are no new worlds to conquer . &quot;
here &apos;s a quick video of what we do .
oh . a moment .
it might take time for it to be invited .
now -- we can just jump over -- i &apos;m just going to skip the video instead ...
no .
that &apos;s not ...
okay .
solar technology is ...
oh , my time is already over ?
okay . thank you very much .
thank you .
so a few years ago , i started a program to get the stars in technology and design to take a year off and work in an environment that is pretty much everything that they actually hate , we let them work in the government .
the program is called &quot; code for america , &quot; and it &apos;s kind of like the freaks peace scorps for computer freaks .
we select some fellows every year , and we let them work with city management .
instead of sending them to the third world , we send them to city users .
and they developed great apps there , worked with urban collaborators .
but what they really do is to show what &apos;s possible today with technology .
so they meet al .
al is a hydrant in the city of boston .
here it looks like he &apos;s looking for a date , but what he &apos;s really looking for is somebody who &apos;s freaked him up when he &apos;s in a business , because he knows he &apos;s not very good at burning when he &apos;s covered by a meter snow .
how did he get to look for help in this particular way ?
i &apos;m a writer .
we had a team of fellows in boston last year , in the suit , the code for america program .
they were there in february , and it &apos;s done a lot last february .
and they realized that the city never shrinks these hydrants .
but a particular fellow , a man named erik michael ober , noticed something else , and that was that the residents freaked the sidewalks , right in front of these parts .
so he did what every good developer would do , he wrote an app .
it &apos;s a nice little app where you can adopt a hydrant .
you agreed to shrink him when it snows .
if you do that , you can give him a name , and he called the first al .
if you don &apos;t do that , someone can take it away from you .
so there &apos;s a nice little game dynamic .
writing books is my profession , but it &apos;s obviously more than that .
this is a modest little app .
it &apos;s probably the smallest of the 21 apps that the fellows have written last year .
but it does something that no other government technology does .
it &apos;s rapidly spreading .
there &apos;s this guy in the i.t. section of the city of honolulu , who has seen that he could use this app , not for snow , but for the adoption of the citizen tsunami sirens .
it &apos;s very important that these tsunami sirens work , but people steal the batteries .
so he got the citizens to check them .
and then seattle decided to use the app to get citizens to clean the clogged gullys .
and chicago has just introduced them so that people will open up the buerie sticks when it snows .
we now know nine cities planning to use this app .
it &apos;s also my big , lifelong love and fascination .
and it &apos;s spread in a frictionless way , organic , of course .
if you know something about government technology , you know it doesn &apos;t usually work like that .
it typically takes a few years to get software .
we had a team that worked on a project in boston last year that took three and a half months to do .
it was about a method that parents can figure out what are the right public schools for their children .
we were later told that if it were to go through the normal channels , it would have taken over two years , and it would have cost over two million dollars .
and that &apos;s nothing else .
there &apos;s a project in california right now that the taxpayers have cost two billion dollars , and it doesn &apos;t work .
and there are projects like this at every level of government .
so an app written in a couple of days , and then it spreads from rarely , is a kind of a grant in front of the bug to the institution of the government .
and i don &apos;t expect this to ever change .
it shows how the government could work better -- no longer like a private company , how many people think it should .
and not even like a tech company , but rather like the internet itself .
and that means free access , which means open and productive .
and that &apos;s important .
but more importantly , this app is that it represents a new generation that tackles the problem of government -- not as the problem of a selled institution , but as a problem of collective action .
and that &apos;s a very good news , because it turns out that we &apos;re very good at collective action with digital technology .
now there &apos;s a big community of people who are making the tools that we need to actually put things together .
it &apos;s not just code for america , it &apos;s fellows , there are hundreds of people around the country who are standing up and writing government apps every day in their own communities .
they didn &apos;t give up the government .
they &apos;re terribly frustrated with her , but they don &apos;t complain about it , they repair it .
however , something weird has happened in my life and my career that has led me to completely rethink my relationship with this work .
and these people know something that we &apos;ve lost from the eyes .
and that &apos;s when you forget all your feelings about politics and the snake in the workforce and all the other things that we &apos;re really excited about , is government , at the core , in the words of tim o &apos;reilly , &quot; what we do together , that we can &apos;t do alone . &quot;
today , a lot of people have given up the government .
and when you &apos;re one of those people , i ask you that you think about it , because things change .
the politics doesn &apos;t change ; the government is in change .
and because the government finally exhausts its power from us -- remember , &quot; we the people ? &quot; -- as we think about it , will affect how this change happens .
i didn &apos;t know very much about government when i started this program .
and like many people , i thought that the government was all about choosing people into an office .
now , after two years , i &apos;ve come to the conclusion that it &apos;s all about communes , about thylacines .
this is the call center for service and information .
this strange event was that i recently wrote a book -- a biography called the eat , pray , love -- that , unlike all my previous books , went out into the world for some reason and became a big mega-event , international bestseller thing .
that &apos;s where you usually get out when you call 311 in your city .
if you ever have the chance to work in your urban call center , like our fellow scott silverman , as part of the program -- in fact , they all do -- you &apos;ll see that the people who call the government because of a lot of different problems , including that there &apos;s a marsupial rat in your house .
so scott gets this fruit .
he &apos;s typing &quot; thylacine &quot; into the official database .
and he doesn &apos;t really have an idea . he starts with the creature .
and finally , he says , &quot; look , can you just open up all the doors in your house and play very loud music and see if the livestock is skin ? &quot;
and that worked . applause for scott .
but that wasn &apos;t the end of the thylacines .
boston doesn &apos;t just have a call center .
it has an app , a web and cell phone app , called citizens connect .
the result is that , no matter where i come from , i &apos;m treated as if i &apos;m going to be able to get the demise .
we didn &apos;t write this app .
this is the work of very smart people at the new urban mechanics office in boston .
one day -- this is an actual report -- came in this : &quot; thylacine rat in my trash bin . can &apos;t tell if it &apos;s dead .
how do i get them away ? &quot;
but what happened to citizens connect is different .
scott was talking about human to human .
but on citizens connect , everything is public , so everybody can see it .
and in this case , it saw a neighbor .
and the next entry that we got was , &quot; i went over there , found the waste bin behind the house .
thylacine ? yes . alive ? yap .
seriously , the demise is refused !
turned the garbage tone on the side . went home .
good night , sweet thylacine . &quot;
pretty simple .
that &apos;s great . here &apos;s the digital hitting the physical .
and it &apos;s also a good example of how to get the government into crowdsourcing .
but it &apos;s also a great example of government as a platform .
and i don &apos;t necessarily mean a technical definition of the platform .
i &apos;m more talking about a platform for people to help themselves and to help others .
a citizen helped another citizen , but the government played a central role here .
they connected these two people .
and the voodooists like to say , &quot; you know , you go to church and talk about god .
for example , they get very concerned about me and say , &quot; don &apos;t you fear you &apos;re never going to overcome this success ?
and you could have connected them to government services if they needed them , but a neighbor is a much better and cheaper alternative to government services .
if one neighbor helps the other , we strengthen our communities .
let &apos;s call the creature , it costs a lot of money .
one of the most important things is that we have to think about it is that government is not the same as politics .
and most people understand that , but they believe that one is the input of the other .
that our contribution to the system is to choose .
how often did we choose a political leader -- and sometimes we used a lot of energy to choose a new political leader -- and then we lean back and we expect the government , to reflect our values and to fulfill our needs , and then not much changed ?
this is because the government is like a further ocean , and politics is the top 15 inches .
and what &apos;s below that is what we call bureaucracy .
and we use this word with such contempt .
are you not afraid that you &apos;re continuing to write your whole life and never create a book that anyone in the world is interested in ? never again ?
but it &apos;s this contempt that this thing that we own , and that we pay for , is to be something that works against us , something else , and then we set ourselves up .
people seem to think , politics is sexy .
if we want this institution to work for us , we need to make bureaucracy sexy .
because that &apos;s where the actual government work is happening .
we have to rely on the machinery of government .
so the occupythesia movement has done it .
did you see these guys ?
it &apos;s a group of troubled citizens who wrote a very detailed 325-page report , which is an answer to the sec-memo on the legislation of the financial reform .
this is not being politically active , this is bureaucratic .
now , for those of us who gave up the government , it &apos;s time for us to think about it , the world we want to leave our children behind .
okay , that &apos;s really courageous .
you have to imagine the enormous challenges that they have to face .
do we really believe that we can do what we need to do without improving the institution that can operate in the name of all of us ?
a government is absolutely necessary , but it has to get more efficient .
the good news is that technology makes it possible to fundamentally reference the function of government in a way that can actually achieve something by strengthening society .
and there &apos;s a generation that &apos;s grown up with the internet , and it knows that it &apos;s not that hard to do things together , you just have to build the right systems .
now the average age of our fellows is 28 , so i &apos;m , unfortunately , almost a generation older than most of you .
this is a generation that grew up seeing your voice for granted .
they &apos;re not fighting this fight that we &apos;re all fighting for who to speak ; they &apos;re all allowed to speak .
you can express your opinion , on every channel at any time , and you do .
so if you &apos;re faced with the government problem , you don &apos;t care so much about using your voices .
but it would be worse if i didn &apos;t remember that over 20 years ago , when i first told as a teenager that i wanted to be a writer , i was confronted with the same kind of anxious response .
they use their hands .
they use their hands to write applications that improve government work .
and these apps allow us to use our hands to improve our communities .
this could be to release a hydrant , to hunt weeds , to turn a trash can into a thylacine .
and surely , we could have released these hydrants all the time , and many people do .
but these apps are like little digital memories that we &apos;re not just consumers , and we &apos;re not just consumers of government who pay taxes and receive services .
we are more than that , we are citizens .
and we &apos;re not going to improve government until we improve citizenship .
so the question i have for all of you here : when it comes to the big , important things that we need to do together , all together , will we be just a lot of voices , or will we be a lot of hands ?
thank you .
people said , &quot; are you not afraid to never succeed ? &quot;
usually my role is to explain to people how wonderful new technologies that are coming up will be , and i thought , since i &apos;m here among friends , i would tell you what i really think , and also try to look back and understand what &apos;s going on here , with these incredible jumps forward , which are so fast that we can &apos;t keep up .
i &apos;m going to start by showing you a single boring slide .
... you could just show the slide for a moment .
this is a slide that i randomly chose from my folder .
i &apos;m not talking about the details of the slide , but rather the general shape .
this slide shows data from an analysis of us about the performance of risc processors compared to the performance of a local area network .
what &apos;s interesting here is that this slide , like some other ones that we often meet in our field , is a kind of semi-logarithmic curve .
in other words , every step here is a potential in the performance scale .
and this is a novelty that we have to use this guy scale on semi-logarithmic curves in the field of technology .
something very strange happens here .
are you not afraid that the humiliation of a statement is killing you ?
this is basically what i &apos;m going to talk about here .
so , if you could turn on the lights .
just a little bit more bright , because i &apos;m going to draw something on the paper right here .
now , why do we draw graphs in technology on semi-logarithmic curves ?
the reason for that is , if i were to draw it on a normal curve , where , say , these are the years , so the timeline of a species , and this is a random measure of the technology that i want to show you with a graph , the graph will be silly .
they look like this .
and that doesn &apos;t tell us much .
now , if i want to record another technology , say , a transportation technology , it would be very unreasonable on the semi-logarithmic scale , in a flat line .
but if something like this happens , it changes the qualitative conditions .
so if the transportation technology continued as fast as microprocessor technology , then we could get into a taxi overmorning , and we would be in tokyo in 30 seconds .
are you not afraid that you &apos;re going to take this craft and never come out of it , and that you &apos;re going to die on a scraped dream -- your mouth filled with the bitter ashes of failure ?
but that &apos;s not so fast .
this has never happened before in the history of technology development , this kind of recursive growth , where the scale increases exponentially every few years .
the question i want to ask you is , if you look at these exponential curves , you see , they don &apos;t go on forever .
it &apos;s not possible that everything evolves forever and forever as fast as it is now .
there are two possibilities .
either it &apos;s going to be a classic s-curve like this , until something completely new comes along , or it &apos;s going to happen here .
that &apos;s kind of it .
well , i &apos;m an optimist , so i think something like this is going to happen .
is that true , then that means we &apos;re right now in the middle of a transition .
we are here in this line , in a transition from the world so far to a new kind of world .
something like that , you know .
so the question that i want to ask , and i often ask myself , is what this new world is going to be like ?
what is this new state that the world is slowly accepting ?
because the transition seems to be very , very confusing when you &apos;re in the middle of it .
when i was a kid , the future was somewhere in the year 2000 , and people would often talk about what would happen in the year 2000 .
now here we have a conference where people talk about the future , and you realize that the future is still in 2000 .
we &apos;re not going to go further than that .
so in other words , the future has shrunk by a year since i &apos;ve been in this world .
i think the reason for that is that we realize that there is something going on .
the transition is happening . we can all feel it .
and we know that it just doesn &apos;t make sense to try to look 30 or 50 years into the future , because everything will be so different that a simple calculation of what we &apos;re doing now simply doesn &apos;t make sense .
the answer -- the short answer to all these questions is yes .
now i want to talk about what this might be , this transition that we &apos;re in right now .
to do this , i &apos;m going to talk about some other things that really don &apos;t have to do with technology or computers .
because to really understand this , i think we have to take a step back and look at the thing on a longer time scale .
and that is , i want to look at this on the time scale of the earth &apos;s life .
i think the whole picture makes sense if you divide it into a few billion steps .
so let &apos;s go back to 2.5 billion years , and the earth was a big , sterile stone clump with a lot of chemicals floating .
now if you look at the way these chemicals were organized , it gives us a pretty good picture of how they did it .
i also think there are theories that are starting to understand how everything started with rna , but i &apos;m going to tell you a simplified story of that , which is that at that time , little oil droplet would blow around , which had different kinds of recipes for chemicals .
some of these oil droplet contains a special combination of chemicals that allowed them to integrate other chemicals from the outside and grow .
all of them were , they started to divide .
yes , i &apos;m afraid of all these things .
these little oil droplet were the most primitive cell form .
but these oil droplet were not living in today &apos;s sense , because each one of them was just a little , random recipe of chemicals .
and every time it divided , the chemicals in it have spread to unequal quantities .
so each droplet was a little different .
in fact , the droplet grew , which had one for the growth of more optimal composition faster than others , and integrated more and more chemicals from the outside , and divided faster .
so these tended to survive longer , and they multiplied in a larger scale .
so this is just a very simple chemical form of life , but more interesting , when these droplet learned a trick about abstraction .
in some way that we don &apos;t understand yet , these droplet has learned the ability to write information down .
they &apos;ve learned to store the recipe of the cell as information , in a particular chemical form that we call dna .
in other words , in this mindless , evolutionary way , they found a way to allow them to write down what they were made of , so that this information could be stored and copied .
we dance in the temple and we become god . &quot;
and i always had that .
the amazing thing about this is that this way of storing information over the time of 2.5 billion years that it came out remained the same .
in fact , the recipe for us is our genes , from the exact same code and the same writing .
and every being uses the exact same letters and the same code .
we &apos;re so far that , just for pleasure , we can write something in this code ourselves .
and i have 100 micrograms of a white pulse , which i try to hold in airports from security professionals .
it &apos;s -- what i &apos;ve done is , i &apos;ve taken this code -- the code is made up of normal letters that we use to symbolize -- and i &apos;ve written my business card on a piece of dna , and i &apos;ve amplified it 10 .b. 22 times .
so if someone wants a hundred million copies of my business card , i have enough for everyone in this room and even for everyone in the world , and it &apos;s right here .
if i had actually been a selfish , i would have written it on a virus and released it into the room .
so what &apos;s the next step ?
writing the dna was an interesting step .
and i &apos;m scared of a lot more things that no one would ever get .
and that &apos;s what made these cells -- that &apos;s what made them happy for another billion years .
but then another very interesting step , where things became completely different , which is that these cells started to communicate and share information , so that communities of cells started to emerge .
i don &apos;t know if you knew that , but bacteria can actually exchange their dna .
this is also why , for example , the permanence to antibiotics is growing .
some bacteria have figured out how to stay away from penicillin and have written this information together with other bacteria into the dna , and now we have a lot of bacteria that are resistant to penicillin because the bacteria communicate with each other .
this communication now allowed the reason of communities , which were in a certain sense in the same boat ; they were synergetic .
so they either survived together , or they went together , and that meant that if a community was successful , all the individuals of the community were repeated more often and preferred by evolution .
the transition site is now where these communities were so close together that they decided to write the recipe for the entire community into a drawing chain on the dna .
and the next interesting phase took about another billion years .
at this point , we have multi-cellular communities , communities of many different cell types that work together as a single organism .
like algae -- and other frightening things .
in fact , we are such a multi-cellular community .
we have a lot of cells that are no longer on their own .
your skin cells are useless without heart cells , muscle cells , brain cells and so on .
so these communities started to evolve , so that the level at which evolution occurred was no longer the individual cell , but the whole cell community that we call organism .
the next step has happened in these communities .
the cell communities started to abstract information again .
and they developed special structures that did nothing but process information within the organism .
and these are the neural structures .
so the neurons are the information processing system that these cell communities have built .
they started to educate specialists within the community , special structures , which were responsible for learning , understanding and capturing information .
but when it comes to writing , i &apos;ve been thinking about it recently , and i ask myself , why ?
and this was the brain and the nervous system of these communities .
this gave them an evolutionary advantage .
because at this point , an individual -- learning has now happened within the period of the life of a single organism , rather than through this evolutionary period of time .
so for example , an organism could learn not to eat a certain fruit because it tasted bad and made it sick , the last time it ate it .
now , this could happen in the lifetime of a single organism , whereas hundreds of thousands of years ago were used , because this information had to be learned evolutionarily by the individuals who died because of this fruit , because these information processing structures were not there yet .
so the nervous system has the evolutionary process using these particular information structures , because evolution has now been able to happen within an individual .
it could be within a time of learning framework .
what happened then is that the individual organisms found a way to communicate with each other .
for example , the most refined version of this kind of communication is human language .
it &apos;s a pretty amazing invention when you think about it .
is that reasonable ?
i have a very complicated , messy and confused idea in my head .
i &apos;m sitting here , and i &apos;m basically giving mind-boggling sounds of myself , hoping to create a similar confusion idea in your head that has a certain similarity to my original idea .
so we take something very complicated , we turn it into sound , a sequence of sound , and we produce something very complicated in the minds of others .
so this now allows us to work again as a unified organism .
and what we actually did , we , humanity , is we started to abstract .
we go through the same stages that many cell organisms have gone through -- the abstraction of our methods , how we hold data , present , process it .
the invention of language , for example , was a small step in that direction .
telephone , computer , video conquerors , cd roms and so on are all our specialized mechanisms that we built in our community to be able to handle this information .
and it connects us all together to something that &apos;s much bigger , and it &apos;s also able to evolve faster than we &apos;ve been .
so today , evolution can happen in the time period of microseconds .
is it logical that someone should be expected to be afraid to do the work that they feel like they are doing ?
you &apos;ve also seen tys &apos; little evolutionary example where he showed a little bit of evolution in the convolution program , right in front of your eyes .
so now we &apos;ve removed the time scales .
the first steps of the story i told you , took a billion years per piece .
the next steps , like the nervous system and the brain , took a few hundred million years .
then the next steps , like language and so on , took less than a million years .
and these next steps , like electronics , seem to take just a few decades .
the process feeds itself and becomes , i think , auto-catalytic is the word for it -- when something increases its change velocity .
the more it changes , the faster it changes .
and i think that &apos;s what we see here in this explosive curve .
we see the process that feeds itself .
and what &apos;s going on with the creative enterprises that they make us insecure about the state of mind -- in a way that other profits don &apos;t do ?
i live professionally from building computers , and i know that i couldn &apos;t use the mechanism that i use to build computers without the recent advances in computer technology .
my current activity is to design objects with such a high complexity , that it &apos;s impossible for me to design them in the traditional sense .
i don &apos;t know what every single transistor does in the connection machine .
it has billions of them .
instead , what i do , and what the designers of thinking machines do , is we think at a certain level of abstraction , we give this machine over , and the machine does something that goes way beyond our ability , better and faster than we could ever do .
and it does it in part with methods that we don &apos;t even understand .
one method that &apos;s particularly interesting , and which i &apos;ve used a lot lately is evolution itself .
and we &apos;re going to install an evolutionary process in the machine that &apos;s going on in the micro-second area .
to give you an example , in the most extreme cases , we can create a program that evolves from random instructions .
we say , &quot; computers , please generate a hundred million randomly selected sequences of instructions .
my father , for example , was a chemist , and i can &apos;t remember a situation in his 40 years as a chemist , where he was asked if he was afraid to be a chemist .
now , please take all of these random instructions , run out all the programs , and eventually choose the ones that are closest to my prescriptions . &quot;
so in other words , i define what i want first .
let &apos;s say i want to sorrow numbers , which is a simple example that i &apos;ve already used for it .
so , find programs that can sort the most precious numbers .
of course , the chance , in random instructions , is very small that , by chance , they &apos;re actually sorting numbers , so i think none of the instructions are going to actually do this .
but one of them may be lucky enough to put two numbers in the right order .
now i say , &quot; computers , now take the 10 percent of the sequences that i &apos;ve got to take my premise the next one .
store them off , delete the rest .
now , all the rest of the people who are best sorted by the numbers .
and with a method of recombining , analog to reproduction . &quot;
with your chemical blockage , john -- how do you do it ?
take two programs and they produce kids through the exchange of their subroutines , and the kids inherit the characteristics of the subroutines from the two programs .
so now i have a new generation of programs that have been created by combinations of programs that have come a little closer to the prescriptions than others .
say , &quot; please repeat this process . &quot;
evaluate them again .
maybe have some mutations .
and try the whole thing again with another generation .
all of these generations need a few milliseconds .
and so i can run through an evolution over millions of years in the computer in a few minutes , or in a more complicated case , a few hours .
finally , i get programs that can make numbers perfect .
in fact , these programs are so much more efficient than any program i could have ever written by hand .
it just didn &apos;t occur , you know ?
so when i look at these programs , i can &apos;t tell you how they work .
i tried to understand them .
it &apos;s rotten and strange programs .
but they do the job .
i know , and i &apos;m sure you do the job , because you come from a series of hundreds of thousands of programs that have done the job .
because their lives depended on whether they did the job right .
i sat in a 747 together with marvin minsky , and he got a map and he says , &quot; oh look . look at this .
it says , &quot; this airplane is made up of hundreds of thousands of little bits that work together to make your flight safer . &apos; doesn &apos;t that make you more confident ? &quot;
we know that an development process is not optimal when it becomes too complicated .
so we start to rely on computers for a process that is very different from the classic engineering system .
and because you &apos;re obsessed , you &apos;re taken from the mind . how can you be harmed ?
but to be fair -- the group of chemists have not been given the reputation of alcohol manic depressed people over the centuries .
it allows us to produce things with a much higher complexity than the normal methods would allow us to produce .
and yet , we don &apos;t really understand the possibilities of that yet .
so , in a sense , technology is overwhelming us .
we &apos;re now using these programs to make the computers much faster , so that we &apos;re able to do these processes even faster .
so there &apos;s a feedback .
it gets faster and faster , and i think that &apos;s why it seems so confusing .
because all these new technologies today are feeding themselves .
we pick up .
we &apos;ve come to a point where the analog is at the time when cell organisms evolved into multi-cellular organisms .
so we &apos;re the amoebas , and we can &apos;t quite figure out what the hell we &apos;re actually creating here .
but we writers seem to have this kind of reputation , but not just the writers , but the creative of all the genres seem to have this reputation , mentally immensely unstable .
we &apos;re in the middle of this transition point .
but i really believe that something else comes after us .
i find it very tirelessly to say that we are the end product of evolution .
and i think all of us here are part of the creation of whatever comes next .
now , lunch is before , and i think i &apos;ll stop here before i get chosen .
my story starts right here in rajasthan , about two years ago .
i was under the starry sky in the desert with sufi singers mukhtiar ali .
we talked about the fact that nothing has changed since the age of ancient indian epos , &quot; mahabharata . &quot;
when we wanted to travel , we jumped into a car and swirled across the sky .
now we do this with airplanes .
all you have to do is look at the bitter death numbers of really great minds just from the 20th century , the young and often died by your own hand .
at the time , when the great indian warrior prince arjuna durst , he took a bow , shot into the ground and water .
now we do this with drills and machines .
we concluded that magic and magic were replaced by machines .
that made me really sad .
i got a little scared of technology .
i was afraid that i could lose the ability to enjoy the sunset with no camera and no tweet to my friends .
i thought technology should make magic possible and not kill .
when i was a little girl , my grandfather gave me his little silver pocket clock .
this piece of 50 years old technology became the most magical thing for me .
it became a golden access to a world full of pirate and unhappy ships and images in my imagination .
and even those who didn &apos;t actually do suicide seem to be really neglected by their talents .
it seemed to me that our sending clocks and cameras dreamed of it .
they kept us from being inspired .
and so i went into the world of technology to see how i could use it to make magic , rather than killing .
when i was 16 , i started illustrating books .
when i saw the ipad , i saw it as a device for storytelling , which can connect readers around the world .
it can know how we hold it .
it can know where we are .
it brings images and text together , animation , sound and touch .
storytelling uses more and more senses .
but what do we do with this ?
norman mailer said just before his death in his last interview : each of my books killed me a little bit more .
i &apos;m just going to khoya , an interactive ipad app .
it says , &quot; put your fingers on every light . &quot;
and so -- here it says , &quot; this box belongs ... &quot; i write my name .
and i become a character in the book .
every once in a while , a letter falls down to me -- and the ipad knows where i live -- it &apos;s really addressing to me .
the child in me is really excited about these possibilities .
i talked a lot about magic .
i mean , not magicians and kites , but the magic of childhood , the ideas that we all had as children .
fireflies in a glass , i always found quite exciting .
so here you have to tip the ipad and let the fireflies out .
an extraordinary statement that you can make about your life &apos;s work .
and they illuminated the way through the rest of the book .
another idea that fascinated me as a child is that a whole galaxy can be put in a single marble .
and so every book and world here becomes a little marble that i put here to the magic device .
and this opens up a map .
fantasy books have always had maps , but these maps were static .
this map grows and glows and serves for guidance in the rest of the book .
it also shows itself in other places of the book .
i go in here .
it &apos;s also important for me to create something that is indian , but also very time-consumed .
these are the apsaras .
but we don &apos;t even listen to someone say that , because we &apos;ve known these kinds of statements for so long , and somehow we have so much internal and collective acceptance that creativity and suffering are somehow together , and that art -- at the end -- always leads to the soul .
we &apos;ve all heard of feen and nymphen , but how many people outside india know their indian colleagues , the apsaras ?
the poor apsaras were caught in indras chambers for thousands of years in an old muffy book .
and we bring them back in a contemporary story for children .
a story that deals with new issues , like the environmental crisis .
for the theme of environmental crisis , a big problem of the last 10 years is that kids are sitting in their rooms , in their computers , without going out .
but now , with mobile technology , we can take our kids into the natural world with their technology .
in an interaction of the book , you &apos;re sent to a search , and you have to go out and collect pictures of natural objects with the camera of the ipad .
as a child , i had collections of sticks , rocks , tiles and shells .
somehow the kids don &apos;t do it anymore .
this is a childhood ritual being brought back . you have to go out and tag a photograph of a flower in a chapter .
the question i want to ask everyone here today is : is this idea completely okay for you ?
in another chapter , you have to photograph and tag a piece of tree mri .
so you actually create a digital collection of photos that you can then put online .
a child in london shows the image of a food , and says , &quot; oh , i &apos;ve seen a food today . &quot;
a child in india says , &quot; today i &apos;ve seen a monkey . &quot;
this creates a kind of social network around a digital collection of photos that you &apos;ve actually taken .
there are a variety of ways to connect magic to the world and technology .
in the next book , we &apos;re planning an interaction where you use the video of the ipad , and through augmented reality , you can see an animation of elves that appear on a plant in front of the house .
in one place , the screen is filled with leaves .
you have to make the sound of the wind , blow it away and read the rest of the book .
we &apos;re all moving to a world where the natural forces of technology can get closer , and the magic and technology can get closer .
do you feel comfortable with this ? because with only one centimeter of distance , i don &apos;t feel comfortable with this notion at all .
we use the energy of the sun .
we bring our kids and we get closer to the natural world and to the magic , fun and the love of our childhood through the simple medium of a story .
thank you .
this is really an extraordinary honor for me .
i spend most of my time researching people , prison or death cells .
i spend most of my time with the socially weakest in the social building settlements and in places where there is a lot of hopelessness .
to be here at ted , to see and hear how stimulating that is , has given me a lot of power .
in the short time here , i realized one thing : ted has an identity .
you can say things that have influence in the world .
and sometimes when something comes to ted , it gets a meaning and a force that it wouldn &apos;t have otherwise .
i find them adorable .
i say that because i think identity is very important .
we &apos;ve seen some fantastic presentations .
i think we &apos;ve learned that the words of a teacher matter , but the words of a dedicated teacher are particularly meaningful .
as a doctor , you can do good , but as a careful doctor , you can do more .
and so i want to talk about the power of identity .
i didn &apos;t learn that in my work as a lawyer .
i learned that from my grandmother .
i grew up in a family , a traditional african-american household dominated by a matriarch , and this matriarch was my grandmother .
she was a whistle , strong woman , she had an effect .
she had the last word in every family argument .
look at these amazing demonstrations : voodoo acolyths in a trance state , the glowing coal with no burn , an amazing illustration of the ability of the mind to influence the body so that it can be kept if it &apos;s put into a state of extreme arousal .
and i find it dangerous . and i don &apos;t want to watch it go into the next century .
it was also the starting point of many arguments in our family .
she was the daughter of a slave family .
their parents were born in virginia in the 1840s as slaves .
she was born in 1880 , and the experience of slavery shaped her worldview very much .
my grandmother was strong , but she was also loving .
when i met her as a little boy , she came up to me and hugged me .
she pushed me so hard that i could barely breathe , and then she let me go .
one or two hours later , when i met her , she came up to me and she said , &quot; bryan , do you feel my hug ? &quot;
and when i said no , she hugged me again , and when i said yes , she left me alone .
she was something that made that you always wanted to be close to her .
i think it &apos;s better if we encourage our great creativity .
the only problem with this was that she had 10 children .
my mother was the youngest of her 10 children .
sometimes , if i wanted to spend time with her , it was hard to get her attention .
my cousins were running around everywhere .
i remember , i had to have been eight or nine , i woke up one morning and i went to the living room , all my cousins were running around .
my grandmother was sitting at the end of the room and staring at me .
first of all , i thought that was a game .
i looked at her and smiled , but she looked very serious .
this went on for 15 or 20 minutes , and then she got up and came over to me , and she took me by the hand , and she said , &quot; come on , bryan , you and i , we need to talk . &quot;
i remember it as though it was yesterday .
and i definitely know that it would be for me -- in my situation -- very dangerous to start , to start this dark path of conjecture , to sort of settle down -- especially in the context that i &apos;m in my career right now .
i &apos;ll never forget it .
she took me outside , and she said , &quot; bryan , i &apos;m going to tell you something , but you have to promise you don &apos;t say it . &quot;
i said , &quot; promise , oma . &quot;
she said , &quot; honor ? &quot; i said , &quot; yes . &quot;
she sat me down , and she looked at me , and she said , &quot; i want you to know i &apos;ve watched you . &quot;
she said , &quot; i think you &apos;re special . &quot;
she said , &quot; i think you can do anything you want to do . &quot;
i &apos;ll never forget that .
then she said , &quot; you just have to promise me three things , bryan . &quot;
i said , &quot; ok , oma . &quot;
that means -- look , i &apos;m pretty young . i &apos;m only about 40 years old .
she said , &quot; first of all , you &apos;re going to love your mom . &quot;
she said , &quot; your mom is my baby , and you have to promise that you &apos;re always going to take care of her . &quot;
i adored my mother , so i said , &quot; yes , grandmother , i &apos;m going to do that . &quot;
then she said , &quot; the next thing to me is that you will always do the right thing , &quot; even though it &apos;s hard to do the right thing . &quot;
i thought , &quot; yes , grandma . i promise . &quot;
and finally , she said , &quot; the last thing you have to promise me is , &quot; you will never drink alcohol . &quot;
now , i was nine years old , and so i said , &quot; yes , grandmother . i promise . &quot;
i grew up in the country , in the old , rural south , and i have a brother who is a year older and a year younger sister .
when i was about 14 or 15 , one day my brother came home and brought this sixpack beer with my sister and me and went to the forest with us .
we were just silent around there as well as we were .
i may have another 40 years of work in me .
then he took a beat of beer and offered my sister one , and she assumed , and then they offered me one .
i said , &quot; no , no , no . all right . do you . i don &apos;t want a beer . &quot;
my brother said , &quot; well , do it . today we do it , you do everything else we do .
i had something , your sister had something . go , drink a beer . &quot;
i said , &quot; i don &apos;t want to . just do it . just do it . &quot;
my brother stared at me .
he said , &quot; what &apos;s going on with you ? well , drink something . &quot;
then he looked me in the face and said , &quot; oh no , you &apos;re not still crazy about the conversation with grandmother ? &quot;
i said , &quot; what are you talking about ? &quot;
he said , &quot; oma tells all the grandchildren they &apos;re special . &quot;
and it &apos;s extremely likely that everything that i &apos;m going to write from now on is being evaluated by the world as the work that came after the success of my last book , right ?
i was devastated .
i &apos;m going to tell you something .
i probably shouldn &apos;t do that .
this may be transmitted in public .
i &apos;m 52 years old , and i &apos;m standing that i &apos;ve never drank a drop of alcohol .
i &apos;m not saying that because i think it &apos;s virtuous . i &apos;m saying that because identity means power .
if we create the right kind of identity , we can tell the people around us things that they don &apos;t believe first .
we can get them to do things that they thought they couldn &apos;t .
of course , my grandmother would say all of your grandchildren , you &apos;re something special .
my grandfather was in prison during the prohibition .
i say it straight , because we &apos;re all kind of friends here -- it &apos;s extremely likely that my greatest success is behind me .
my uncles died of alcohol induced diseases .
and she believed that these were the issues that we had to take care of .
i &apos;ve tried to say something about our justice system .
this country is different from 40 years ago .
in 1972 , 300,000 people were in prison and in prison .
today , it &apos;s 2.3 million .
the united states today has the highest incarceration rate in the world .
seven million people are discharged with currency or with conditional punishment .
in my opinion , mass incarceration has fundamentally changed our world .
in social weak and black parts of the population , despair and hopelessness , because of these changes .
oh , jesus , what a thought !
one out of three male black people between 18 and 30 is in prison , in prison , in the prison , in the prison , in the prison , in terms of conditional punishment .
in urban communities all over the country -- from los angeles to philadelphia , baltimore to washington -- 50 to 60 percent of all black young men are either in prison , in prison , in the prison , in terms of conditional punishment .
but our system is not only shaped by questions that have to do with racial belonging , but it &apos;s also being deployed by poverty .
we have a justice system in this country that will treat them much better if they &apos;re rich and guilty than poor and innocent .
wealth , not debt , affects the result .
and yet , we seem to be very satisfied with this .
a politics of fear and anger has convinced us that these problems are not our problems .
we &apos;ve lost touch .
i think that &apos;s interesting .
there are some very interesting developments .
these are the kind of thoughts that can get someone to start drinking gin at 9 a.m. , and i don &apos;t want to .
my home state of alabama is constantly pulling out the right to vote when they &apos;re convicted .
here and today in alabama , 34 percent of the male black population have constantly lost their voting right .
we predict that in 10 years , the rate of recognition of civil rights will be as high as before the election legislation .
silence is earning .
i represent kids .
many of my clients are very young .
the united states of america is the only country in the world that convicts three-year-olds to die in prison .
in this country , for children , there are lifelong sentences with no conditional punishment .
we already have a lot of procedures .
the only country in the world .
i &apos;d rather continue to do this work that i love .
i put people in death cells .
the death penalty question is an interesting question .
we believe that because we &apos;ve been taught so that the real question is , did a human being deserve to die for a crime that he did ?
this is a very sensitive question .
but you can also think about it differently , depending on how we see our identity .
the other point of view is not : did anyone deserve death for a crime , but did we deserve to kill ?
i think that &apos;s fascinating .
the death penalty in america is defined by error .
to nine people we executed , one that we found for innocent people who was discharged and discharged from the death cell .
an amazing error rate . one in nine innocent .
but what &apos;s interesting is the unique tone of the song , the rhythm of dance in every culture .
now , of all the people i &apos;ve met , the sierra nevada de santa marta in northern colombia , were the most extraordinary .
so the question is : how ?
i think that &apos;s fascinating .
we would never let anyone fly on an airplane if for nine airplanes that would pick up , one would fall .
but somehow , we &apos;re able to get away from this problem .
it &apos;s not our problem .
it &apos;s not our burden .
it &apos;s not our fight .
i talk a lot about these questions .
i &apos;m talking about race and the question of whether we have the right to kill .
and it &apos;s exciting because i teach my students african-american history . i talk about slavery .
i &apos;m talking about terrorism , the time at the end of reconstruction , to the beginning of world war ii .
after some time of reflection , it seems to me that to continue to write , i have to design a kind of protective psychological construct .
we don &apos;t really know very much about it .
but for the african-american in this country , it was a time of terror .
in many areas , people had to be afraid of lynchmobs .
or before bombs .
it was the fear of terror that shaped their lives .
these older people are now coming to me and saying , &quot; mr , stevenson , they &apos;re talking , they &apos;re giving talks . they &apos;re telling people to stop saying we have to do it for the first time in our nation &apos;s history with terrorism : after 9 / 11 . &quot;
they say , &quot; no -- tell people we grew up with it . &quot;
and after terrorism , of course , the racial rendering and decades of racist motivated submission and apartheid .
and yet , in our country , there &apos;s a dynamic -- we don &apos;t like to talk about our problems .
we don &apos;t like to talk about our story .
somehow , from now on , i have to find a way to preserve a safe distance between me and my very natural constipation about how the reaction will be to the written .
and so we don &apos;t really understand what our actions are in the historical context .
we &apos;re constantly bumping into each other .
we &apos;re always creating new tensions and conflicts .
it &apos;s hard for us to talk about race , and i think that &apos;s because we &apos;re not willing to approach the process of truth and reconciliation .
in south africa , people have understood that racing is not to overcome without the willingness to truth and reconciliation .
even after the genocide in rwanda , there was this willingness , but not in this country .
i gave some talks in germany about the death penalty .
it was fascinating because one of the scientists stood up after my talk and said , &quot; you know , it &apos;s deeply disturbing to hear you speak like this . &quot;
he said , &quot; in germany , there is no death penalty .
and of course , in germany , they can never give them any more . &quot;
in the past year , as i &apos;ve been looking for models for this to do this , i &apos;ve also been looking for the past , and i &apos;ve been trying to find other societies to see if they might have better or more sensible ideas about how to help creative risks to deal with the emotional risks associated with creativity .
it became completely silent , and then a woman said , &quot; with our history , it &apos;s impossible that we can ever reconcile for the systematic killing of people .
it would be mindless of us to consciously and individually orient people . &quot;
i thought about it .
what it would feel like to live in a world where the german state made people do , especially if there were a lot of jews below .
it would be intolerable .
it would be mindless .
and yet , here in this country , in the states of the old south , we put people -- here &apos;s the risk of being convicted to death , 11 times higher when the victim is white than when it &apos;s black , 22 times higher , when the charged black is black , and the victim knows -- in the same states , where the body is rowing paralyzed people .
and yet , there &apos;s this mental disconnect .
i think our identity is threatened .
if we don &apos;t deal with it , with these difficult issues , then the positive and wonderful things are also affected .
this quest led me to ancient greece and the old rome .
we love innovation .
we love technology and creativity .
we love entertainment .
but ultimately , these realities are overwhelmed by suffering , abuse , herabuse , boundary .
i think it &apos;s important to unite both .
because we &apos;re ultimately talking about that we need more hope , more engagement , more commitment to be able to pass in a complex world .
for me , the time is to spend , think and talk about the poor , the disadvantaged , the ones that will never be at ted .
but thinking in a way that is integrated into our own lives .
we all have to believe in the end of the day things that we can &apos;t see .
we do that . as rational as we are , as much as we estimate intellect .
please follow me , because the circle will close again .
innovation , creativity , and development are not just coming out of our heads .
they come from ideas that are driven by the belief in our hearts .
it &apos;s this head-heart connection , which i think drives us to be not just open to all the bright and exciting things , but also for the dark and problematic .
vaclav havel , the great checho politician , once said this .
&quot; when we fought in eastern europe against oppression , we wanted everything . but what we needed the most was hope , a mental orientation , the willingness to be sometimes in hopeless places and witness . &quot;
this mental orientation is the core of what i believe that the ted communities also have to engage in this .
there is no boundary for technology and design that allows us to be completely human , as long as we don &apos;t have eyes and ears for poverty , limitation and injustice .
i want to warn you . this kind of identity requires a lot more of us than if we didn &apos;t care about it .
it will touch it deeply .
as a young lawyer , i was privileged to meet rosa parks .
but in ancient greece and rome , people didn &apos;t believe that creativity comes from people , ok ?
woman parks kept coming back to montgomery , where she travels two of her oldest friends , these older women , johnnie carr , who had organized the montgomery bus boycott -- an incredible african-american woman -- and virginia durr , a white woman whose husband , clifford durr , dr. king .
so these women would come together and just talk .
occasionally , woman carr called me and said , &quot; bryan , woman parks comes to the city . we want to talk .
do you want to come and listen ? &quot;
and i said , &quot; yes , very much . &quot;
she said , &quot; and what will you do if you &apos;re here ? &quot;
i said , &quot; i &apos;m going to listen . &quot;
and i went over and i just listened .
it was always so inspiring , so whispering .
one day i was sitting there listening to these women , and after a few hours , woman parks turned to me and said , &quot; well , bryan , tell me what the same right initiative is . &quot;
they believed that creativity was a kind of divine dienery spirit that comes from a distant , unknown source to the people -- for unexplained , unknown reasons .
what are they trying to do ? &quot;
i started with my usual talk .
i said , &quot; we &apos;re trying to go against injustice .
wr wants to help people who have been innocent convicted .
we want to fight bias and discrimination in the criminal justice system .
we want to eliminate lifelong sentences without conditional punishment for children .
we want to do something about death penalty .
we want to reduce the number of prisoners .
we want to eliminate mass incarceration . &quot;
i gave my usual talk , and then she looked at me and said , &quot; mhmm . mhmm . mhmm . &quot;
the greeks called these divine dienery spirits of creativity .
she said , &quot; this will make you very , very tired . &quot;
then woman carr leaned up to me , put a finger on my face and said , &quot; and so you have to be very , very brave . &quot;
and so i think that the ted community should be braver .
we need to find ways to address these challenges : these problems , this suffering .
because ultimately , our humanity depends on all of our humanity .
in my work , i learned very simple things .
i learned a couple of very simple things .
that we &apos;re all more than the worst thing we &apos;ve ever done .
i think that &apos;s true for every human on the planet .
when someone &apos;s lying , they &apos;re not just a liar .
he was known by socrates that he believed that he had a demonstration that told him that he was farther away .
if someone takes something they don &apos;t hear , they &apos;re not just a thief .
even if you kill someone , it &apos;s not just a murderer .
and because that is , there is a fundamental human dignity that needs to respect the law .
i also believe that in many parts of this country , and certainly in many parts of the world , the opposite of poverty is not wealth .
i don &apos;t think so .
i think in too many places , the opposite of poverty is justice .
and finally , i believe that even though it &apos;s so dramatic , so beautiful and inspiring , and so stimulating , we &apos;re not going to end up being measured by our technology , not by the things that we &apos;re developing , not by our intellect and minds .
finally , a society is not measured by how it treats its rich and powerful and privileged , but by how it &apos;s dealing with the poor , the convicted , the incarcerated .
because in this context , we start to understand the truly amazing things that make us .
sometimes i lose the balance . a story at the end .
the offspring of the ancient tyrannian civilization , which populated the caribbean coastal plain , and as a result of the conquest , this people returned to an isolated volcanic massive rise above the caribbean coastal plain .
the romans had the same idea , this kind of body loser of creative spirit , called a genius .
sometimes i push too much .
i get tired , like all of us .
sometimes these ideas are predicting our thinking in a very important way .
i represent these kids who were convicted of very hard sentences .
i go to the research prison , and i visit a client who may be 13 or 14 years old , who is supposed to be on trial as an adult .
then i ask myself , how could this happen ?
how can a judge turn someone into something they &apos;re not ?
the judge looks at him as an adult , but i see a child .
one night , i stayed up for too long , and i thought , my god , if a judge can turn us into something else , then he has to have magic forces .
right , bryan , the judge has magic forces .
that &apos;s great . the romans didn &apos;t really think that a genius was a particularly smart individual .
you should want some of them too .
and because it was late , and i couldn &apos;t really think about it , i started working on a commission .
i had a 14-year-old , poor black boy as a client .
and i started this contract , and the headline was , &quot; assignment to treat my poor , 14-year-old black mandants like a privileged , white , 75-year-old top manager . &quot;
in my assignment , i explained that misconduct of the governance and the police and the failures to take into account .
there was a crazy line that there &apos;s nothing in this country that &apos;s still misbehaving .
the next morning , i woke up and i didn &apos;t know if i had dreamed this crazy post or actually written it .
and to my deposit , i had not only written it , but sent it to the court .
a few months went forward , and i had just forgotten everything .
but finally , i decided , my god , i have to go to the court and do this crazy case .
they thought that a genius was this kind of magical being that was thought to be in the walls of an artist -- sort of like dobby , the house f -- that came out and would sort of help the artist do the work and make the result of the work .
i got in the car and was really overwhelmed -- overwhelmed .
so i went to the court .
and i thought that was going to be so hard , so painful .
finally , i got out of my car , and i went up the staircase to the court .
when i lifted the staircase to the court , there was an elderly , black man , the janitor in the court .
when he saw me , he came over to me and said , &quot; who are you ? &quot;
i said , &quot; i &apos;m a lawyer . &quot; he said , &quot; you &apos;re a lawyer ? &quot; i said , &quot; yes . &quot;
he came to me and hugged me .
then he whispered me into the ear .
he said , &quot; i &apos;m so proud of you . &quot;
this is brilliant -- there &apos;s it , there &apos;s the distance i talked about -- the psychological construct that protects you from the consequences of your work .
and i have to say , it gave me power .
it touched something very deep in me , identity , the ability of each individual , to contribute to a community , to a perspective of hope .
well , i went to the courthouse .
as soon as the judge saw me .
he said , &quot; mr. stevenson , did you put this crazy post ? &quot;
i said , &quot; yes . &quot; and then we started discussing .
more and more people came in just because they were angry .
that i had written these crazy things .
police officers came in and deputy state lawyers and office workers .
in the handshake , the courthouse was full of people who were angry that we were talking about skin color , about poverty , about inequality .
and everybody knew it worked that way , right ?
from my point of view , i looked up and down the janitor .
he kept looking through the window , and he could hear the whole tohuwabohu .
he went up and down .
finally , this older black man came to the court with a very concerned facial cruck , and sat right behind me , almost on the defense bank .
ten minutes later , the judge announced a break .
during the break , a police officer came in , who was disturbing that the janitor was in the courthouse .
this deputy ran over to the older black .
he said , &quot; jimmy , what do you do in the courtship ? &quot;
the older black man stood up . he looked at the deputy , and he looked at me , and he said , &quot; i &apos;ve come here to tell this young man , don &apos;t lose the goal from the eyes . don &apos;t give up . &quot;
i &apos;ve come to ted because i think many of you have understood that the moral pendulum of the universe is wiping out , but that it &apos;s going to increase justice .
the artist of the age was protected from certain things , like , you know , too much narcissism , right ?
that we are not fully designed as human beings , unless we care about human rights and basic values .
that all of our survival is connected to the survival of every single one .
that we need to connect our visions of technology and design , of entertainment and creativity to humanity , of compassion and justice .
and most of all , i just want to say to those of you who see that , just say , don &apos;t lose the target out of your eyes . don &apos;t give up .
you &apos;ve seen in this audience , this community , an obvious wish , and you &apos;ve heard to help them and do something .
what else can we do ?
bryan stevenson : well , there are opportunities everywhere .
if you live in california , in this spring , there &apos;s a ethnic decision , which is actually about trying to do an effort , to take some of the money that otherwise flows into the politics of punishment .
here in california , for example , in the next five years , you &apos;re going to spend a billion dollars on death penalty . a billion dollars .
and yet , 46 percent of all the killing delicate doesn &apos;t end with an arresting .
if your work was brilliant , you couldn &apos;t look at it all for you , and everybody knew that you had this disembodied genius that helped you .
56 percent of rape cases are not in court .
here &apos;s the opportunity to do something .
this reference will propose to invest the money in more security and security .
i think there are opportunities everywhere .
in the last three decades , the crime rate has declined immensely in america .
this fact is often put into a context of the elevated incarceration numbers .
what would you say to someone who believes that ?
well , in fact , the number of violent crimes has not changed very much .
most of the mass incarceration in this country has not really happened in the class of the violent crimes .
it was the misguided cross against drugs .
when your work flew -- not completely your fault , right ?
so the dramatic high numbers come from the prisoners &apos; prisoners .
we &apos;ve been tearing down from the rhetoric of punishment .
now we have &quot; three violations &quot; laws that bring people behind the grid forever , for a bicycle theft , for the theft , for the thief , good , rather than forcing them to return things to the victims .
i think we need to do more to help people who have become victims of a criminal , not less .
and i think that our current punishment philosophy is not helping anybody .
i think that &apos;s what we need to change .
bryan , you really got a string to swing here .
they are an inspiring personality .
thank you for being at ted . thank you very much .
bin laden &apos;s death takes an increased risk of riding .
everybody knew your genius was a little lahm .
famine in somalia . speaker 3 : pepper spray of the police .
evil cartels . speaker 5 : dangerous cruise ships .
speaker 6 : social decline . speaker 7 : 65 deaths .
speaker 8 : tsunami warning . speaker 9 : cyber-attacks
different speakers : drug war . weapons of mass destruction . tornado .
recession . gridlock . doomsday . egypt . syria .
crisis . death . disaster .
oh my god .
so these are just a few of the clips that i &apos;ve collected over the last six months -- but it could have been the last six days , or the last six years .
the fact is that the media preferences to show us negative themes , because our minds pay attention to these particular topics .
so people in the west have really thought about creativity for a long time .
and there &apos;s also a very good reason for that .
every second of the day , our senses are catching much more information than our brains can ever process .
and because we &apos;re more important than our survival , the first stop for all the information is part of our temporal lobe , the amygdala .
so the amygdala is our early warning system , our vehicle detector .
it carries and carries all the information in the search for any evidence of danger in our environment .
so when we see the news , we prefer to look for negative news .
and the old saying , &quot; when it bloods , the demand goes up , &quot; is very true .
now , with all our digital devices , seven days a week , 24 hours a day , all of these negative news stories , it &apos;s not a miracle that we &apos;re pessimistic .
it &apos;s not a miracle that everybody thinks that the world is getting worse and worse .
but maybe that &apos;s not the case .
in a bloodbath continent , these people were the only ones that were never conquered by the spaniards .
and then the renaissance came along and everything changed . we had this big idea . and this big idea was , let &apos;s put the human individual at the center of the universe -- about all the gods and mysteries . and there is no room for mystical creatures that take orders from the divine .
maybe that &apos;s the reality .
maybe the tremendous progress that we &apos;ve made in the last century is accelerating through a series of forces , so strong that we can make a world of abundance in the next three decades .
now , i &apos;m not saying that we don &apos;t have big problems -- climate crisis , species die , water and energy problems -- we already have them .
and as humans , we &apos;re much better at looking at problems in a very long way , but ultimately they &apos;re going to overcome .
let &apos;s see what we &apos;ve achieved in the last century , so we can anticipate the development .
in the last 100 years , the average life expectancy has more than doubled , which has adapted to inflation , the average income of the world &apos;s population has tripled .
child mortality has reduced by a tenth .
in addition , the food , electricity transportation and communication costs have decreased by a lot of times .
steve pinker showed us that we are living in a very peaceful time of human history .
and according to charles kenny , literacy rates have gone from 25 percent to 80 percent in the last 130 years .
it &apos;s the beginning of rational humanism , and people started to believe that creativity came completely from their individual .
we live in a really extraordinary time .
and many people forget this .
and we &apos;re continuing to increase our expectations .
in fact , we &apos;ve redefined poverty .
consider that a large percentage of americans living under the poverty line have access to electricity , water , toilets , refrigerators , tv , mobile phones , air conditioning and cars .
the richest capitalists of the last century , the imperators of the earth , could never have dreamed of such luxury goods .
the basis of a lot of these are technologies , and they grow expotentially .
my good friend ray kurzweil has shown us that every tool that becomes information technology , on the curve of moore &apos;s law , makes a big leap , doubling the price performance quotient every 12 to 24 months .
that &apos;s why the mobile phone in your pocket costs about a million times less and is thousands of times faster than a supercomputer from the &apos; 70s .
now look at this curve .
for the first time in history , people hear this or this artist call a genius -- instead of having a genius .
this is moore &apos;s law over the last hundred years .
notice two things about this curve .
first , how smooth it is -- in good times , war or peace , recession , depression and high conjuncture .
this is the result of faster computers building faster computers .
it slows down for none of our big problems .
and also , despite their logarithmic process , she goes upwards .
so growth rate itself is accelerating .
and on this curve , on the back of moore &apos;s law , we find a series of extraordinary technologies that are available to everybody .
cloud-computing , what my friends at autodesk call infinite computing , sensors and networks , robots , 3d printers that allow us to democratize personal production on our planet , synthetic biology , fuels , vaccines and food , digital medicine , nano-materials and artificial intelligence .
how many of you have seen the victory of ibm &apos;s supercomputer watson at &quot; risk ? &quot;
i have to tell you , i think that was a big mistake .
that was great .
i went through the newspapers and looked for the best headlines that i could find .
i love this one : &quot; watson forces human opponents . &quot;
risk is not a simple game .
it &apos;s about understanding the nuances of language .
imagine that this artificial intelligence is available to every mobile phone owner .
four years ago , ray kurzweil and i started a new university here at ted called singularity university .
we teach our students all these technologies , with special focus on how they can be used to solve the great challenges of humanity .
and every year , we ask the students to create companies , products and services that can be positive within a decade , the lives of billions of people .
think about how a group of students today can impact the lives of billions of people .
you know ? i think allowing a mere person to think he thinks he or she &apos;s like the vessel , like the pelvis and the essence and the source of all the divine , creative , unknown , infinite mystery is a little bit too much responsibility to put it on a fragile , human psyche .
30 years ago , this would have been ridiculous .
today we can point to dozens of companies that have done exactly that .
when i think about creating abundance , i don &apos;t mean a life of luxury for everyone on the planet ; it &apos;s about creating a life of opportunity .
it &apos;s about making goods abundance out of scarce .
because scarcity is contextual , and technology is a resource liberating force .
here &apos;s an example .
this is the story of napoleon iiii in the middle of the mid-18th century .
he &apos;s the guy on the left .
he invited the king of siam to dinner .
napoleon &apos;s soldiers got silver brick , napoleon himself got gold brick .
it &apos;s like asking someone to swallow the sun .
but the king of siam got aluminum bribe .
aluminum , at that time , was the most valuable metal on the planet , more valuable than gold and plain .
this is why the dome of the aluminum monument was made of aluminum .
although aluminum takes 8.3 percent of the earth &apos;s mass , it doesn &apos;t appear to be a pure metal .
it &apos;s connected by oxygen and silicon .
but then the technology of electrolysis was developed and made aluminum manufacturing so cheap that we use it with our throwaway mentality .
then let &apos;s project this analogy into the future .
we &apos;re thinking about energy scarcity today .
ladies and gentlemen , we live on a planet filled with 5,000-fold more energy than we use every year .
16 terawatts of energy , every 88 minutes , goes on the surface of the earth .
this displays and distorts whole egos , and it creates all these unreachable expectations of success .
it &apos;s not scarcity , the problem is accessibility .
and there &apos;s good news .
this year , they &apos;ve been able to reduce the cost of solar power in india to 50 percent of the same electricity -- 8.8 rupees compared to 17 rupees .
the cost of solar power has dropped by 50 percent last year .
last month , this published with a study that shows that by the end of this decade in the sunny areas of the united states , solar will cost six cents a kwh , compared to 15 cents on the national average .
and if we have an energy surplus , we will also have water in the abundance .
let &apos;s talk about water wars .
do you remember when carl sagan turned the voyager spacecraft in 1990 , when it passed saturn , back to earth ?
he took a famous photograph . what was it called ?
&quot; a pale blue dot . &quot;
i think this success pressure has devastated our artists over the last 500 years .
because we live on a water planet .
we live on a planet that is 70 percent covered with water .
yes , it &apos;s 97.5 percent saltwater , two percent are ice , and we &apos;re fighting 0.5 percent of the water on the planet , but here &apos;s hope .
and there are new technologies , not in 10 or 20 years , but now .
these are new nanotechnology on the way , nano-materials .
and from a conversation this morning with dean kaman , one of the innovators of the do it yourself , i want to share with you -- he gave me the permission -- his technology , which is called &quot; slingshot , &quot; which many of you may have heard about . it &apos;s the size of a refrigerator in the student &apos;s home .
it can produce a thousand liters of clean drinking water a day from different sources -- whether it &apos;s saltwater , polluted water , latrine -- and all of that for less than two cents a gallon .
the chairman of coca-cola has just agreed to start a big test project with a hundred units in developing countries .
and if everything goes well , and i &apos;m very confident , coca-cola is going to apply this technology globally in 206 countries around the planet .
this is technology-supported innovation that we have today .
and if that &apos;s true -- and i think it &apos;s true -- the question is , you know , the question .
and we &apos;ve also seen this in mobile phones .
you know , my goodness , we &apos;re going to get the 70 percent coverage rate of mobile phones in the developing world by the end of 2013 .
just consider that a massai warrior with a cell phone in the middle of kenya has a better mobile communication than president reagan did 25 years ago .
and if you look for google with your smartphone , you have more access to knowledge and information than president clinton 15 years ago .
they live in a world that has information and communication in abundance , as nobody could have predicted .
and it gets better , the things that you and i have spent several thousand dollars on -- gps , hd video and photograph , libraries full of books and music , technology for medical diagnostics -- are now literally being dematerialized and cheaper in your cell phone .
and perhaps the best thing about this is what we &apos;re expecting in health .
last month , i had the pleasure of announcing , with the qualcomma foundation , the so-called &quot; $ 10 million qualcomm tricorder x prize . &quot;
we challenge teams around the world to connect all of these technologies together in a mobile phone so that you can talk to the device , because it &apos;s equipped with ai , you can clean in or test your blood levels .
and to win , the device has to diagnose a better one than a team of high-skill doctors .
can we change it ?
imagine this device . in the middle of a developing country , where there are no doctors , but 25 percent of the disease burden and 1.3 percent of the health workers .
if this device sequences a rna- or dna virus that &apos;s not known , it calls the ministry of health and prevents a pandemic from its outbreak .
but now , the biggest force that will lead us to a world of abundance .
i call them &quot; the coming billion . &quot;
the white lines are for population .
we just crossed the 7-billion-dollar brand .
and by the way , the biggest insurance against a population explosion is a better education and food in the world .
in 2010 , we had just connected under two billion people online .
by 2020 , we &apos;re going to go from two billion to five billion internet users .
three billion new minds that we &apos;ve never heard of before will connect to global communication .
until today , they are governed by a ritual priesthood , but the education to the priesthood is very extraordinary .
maybe to an ancient understanding of the relationship between people and the mystery of the creative .
what do these people need ?
what are they going to consume ? what are they going to desire ?
and instead of economic gridlock , i see one of the biggest economic shops in history .
these people represent several trillion dollars that will flow into the global economy .
and they will be healthier by using the tricoder , and they will be trained better by the khan academy , and by the way that they will have the ability to use 3d printers and infinite computing , and be so much more productive than ever before .
so what can three billion growing , healthy , educated , productive members of the human community bring us ?
how about a set of new , never heard before ?
how about giving a voice to the oppressed wherever you are , to pay attention to yourself and to create change for the first time ?
what are these three billion people going to bring ?
what about contributions that we can &apos;t even predict ?
maybe not .
one of the things that i learned from the x prize is that small teams that are motivated by passion and focus can create extraordinary things , things that big companies and governments could only create in the past .
i want to end with a story that really got me excited .
there &apos;s a program that some of you may know .
it &apos;s a game called foldit .
it was developed at the university of washington in seattle .
and it &apos;s a game where people can take a sequence of amino acids to study how the protein will evolve .
according to its behavior , we can predict the structure and function .
and this is very important in medical research .
so far , this was a problem for supercomputers .
and this game was played by university professors and so on .
maybe we can &apos;t just eradicate that thought from 500 years of rational humanism in an 18-minute talk .
and there are now hundreds of thousands of people who have played the game online .
and it showed that today the human pattern detection is better folding the proteins than the best supercomputer .
and when these people came and looked at who is the best protein folder in the world , this was not a mit professor , nor a caltech student , it was somebody from england , manchester , a woman who was working as an assistant of the ceo in a rehab clinic , and was the best protein orderer in the world at night .
ladies and gentlemen , what gives me enormous faith in our future , is the fact that we have more power today than individuals to face the great challenges of our planet .
we have access to tools with exponential technology .
we have the passion of a diy innovator .
we have the capital of techno-philanthropy .
and we have three billion new heads that we can work with online to master the new challenges , and to do what &apos;s needed .
we expect a couple of extraordinary decades .
thank you .
and there are certainly people in this audience who are signing up really legitimate scientific doubt about the idea of -- basically -- fees that people follow and apply fee magic to their projects and so on .
i think we need to do something about a transformative piece of medical culture .
and i think it starts with a medical doctor , and that &apos;s me .
and maybe i &apos;ve been in business for a long enough time , as if i can allow myself to give up a piece of my own false prestige to make this possible .
but before i get to the actual topic of my talk , let &apos;s start with a little baseball .
hey , why not ?
we &apos;re close to the season , and we &apos;re moving to the world cup .
we all love baseball , right ?
baseball is full of great statistics .
and there are hundreds of them .
&quot; moneyball &quot; appears soon , and it &apos;s about statistics and to use it to make a great baseball team .
i &apos;m probably not going to be able to take all of you on this journey .
i &apos;m going to refer to a statistic that i hope most of you have heard about before .
it &apos;s the average performance of the bat .
we &apos;re talking about a 300 when a bat hits 300 .
that means that the player will beat three out of 10 strokes .
that is to beat the ball in the field , it comes up , it &apos;s not caught , and who tried to throw the ball to the first base , didn &apos;t do it in time , and the runner was in security .
three out of 10 .
do you know how to call a 3,000 person in major league baseball ?
well , really good , maybe a single star .
do you know what it &apos;s called a 4,00th ?
this is someone who , by the way , hits four out of 10 .
but the question i want to throw up is : why not ?
legendary -- like ted williams legendary -- the last major league baseball player who met over 400 times during a regular season .
let &apos;s go back to my medical world , where i feel a lot more comfortable , or maybe a little less comfortable , after i talked to you about it .
suppose you have a blinddaring , and you &apos;re transferred to an operator whose average performance is 400 in terms of blinddaring .
somehow it doesn &apos;t work , right ?
suppose you live in a certain remote area , and you have a beloved person with clogged heart disease , and your householder is proven to be a cardiologist whose average performance is 200 vascular performance .
but , you know what ?
it &apos;s much better this year . it &apos;s on the rising .
and she &apos;s beating a 257 .
somehow it doesn &apos;t work .
but i &apos;m going to ask you a question .
why not think about it that way ?
what do you think the average performance for a cardiologist or a nurse or an orthopedic , a birthday worker , should be a rescue assistant ?
1,000 , very good .
the truth is that nobody in all medicine knows what a good surgeon or a doctor or a rescue assistant should be .
but what we do is we send every one of them , including me , to the world with the claim to be perfect .
never make a mistake , but nobody is thinking about the details of how to do this .
and that &apos;s the message i took in medical school .
i was a compulsive obsessive student .
in high school , a fellow student once said brian goldmann would learn for a blood test .
and so was it .
and i learned in my little grade in the nurse residence at the toronto general hospital , far from here .
because it makes as much sense as anything else i &apos;ve heard about when it comes to explaining the absolutely insane mobility of the creative process .
i learned everything memorized .
in my anatomic lecture , i learned the origins and outliers of every muscle , every branch of any artery that takes away from the aorta , obscure and ordinary differential diagnosis .
i even knew the differential diagnosis to classify renal tubulae azidose .
and all the time , i was collecting more and more knowledge .
and i was good , i graduated with cum laude .
and i left medical school with the impression that , if i knew everything , i knew everything , or at least as much as possible , as close as possible , that i was immune to making mistakes .
and it worked for a while until i met woman printer .
i resisted in a teaching hospital here in toronto as a woman printer was brought to me in the emergency department of the hospital .
at that point , i was dedicated to the cardiological layer in the cardiological service .
and it was my mission when the emergency staff was looking for cardiological advice to study the emergency patient .
a process that -- as anyone who has ever tried to do something -- so in other words , everybody here -- doesn &apos;t always behave reasonably .
and giving feedback to my chief doctor .
i studied woman printer , and she was in breathtaking .
and when i listened to her , she made very keen sounds .
and when i heard her chest with the stethoscope , i could hear a cracking sound on both sides , which told me she was suffering from congestive heart failure .
this is a state where the heart fails , instead of pumping all the blood on , a part of the blood is stuck in the lung , and filling it up gradually , so the short-term came .
and that was not a hard diagnosis .
i hired them , and i went to the treatment .
i gave her aspirin . i gave her medicine to take the pressure of the heart .
i gave her medicine , which we call diuretics , water pills , so that she would leave the liquid .
and over a period of one and a half to two hours , she started to feel better .
in fact , sometimes it can feel kind of paranormal .
i felt really good .
and i made my first mistake ; i sent them home .
in fact , i made two mistakes .
i sent them home without talking to my chief doctor .
i didn &apos;t take the listener and do what i should have done , which would have been a call with my chief doctor to tell him that he had a chance to take a picture .
and he knew her , he would have been able to guide additional information to her .
maybe i did it with good reason .
maybe i didn &apos;t want to be the aid doctor .
maybe i wanted to be so successful and so able to take responsibility that i was doing so , and so i would be able to take care of my patients without having to contact him .
my second mistake was worse .
the young acolyths are separated from their families at the age of three and four , and in a shadow world of the finsternis , in stone huts at the bottom of the glacier for 18 years , and two periods of each nine , selected to mimic the nine months of pregnancy that they spent in the lap of their conductive mother , they now spend metamorphorically in the lap of the great mother .
i had such an encounter recently when i met the extraordinary american poet ruth stone , who is now over 90 , but who was a poet throughout her life . she told me that when she was growing up in the villages of virginia , she said she could feel and hear how a poem came across the landscape .
and by sending them home , i missed a quiet voice in me that tried to tell me , &quot; goldman , not a good idea . don &apos;t do that . &quot;
in fact , i was so lacking self-security that i asked the nurse who was taking care of ms. printer , &quot; do you think it &apos;s okay when she goes home ? &quot;
and the nurse thought about it and said , in a way , &quot; yeah , i think she &apos;s going to do well . &quot;
i remember it as though it was yesterday .
so i signed the indulgences and a hospital and a rescue assistant came and brought them home .
and i went back to work .
the rest of the day , the night , i had this nagging feeling in my stomach .
but i kept working .
and at the end of the day , i grabbed my things , i left the hospital , and i went to the parking lot to go home with the car , when i did something that i didn &apos;t do otherwise .
i went home through the emergency department on my way .
she said it was like a thundering train of air .
and there , another nurse said , not the sister who had seen for ms. printer , but another three words to me , and these three words fear most emergency doctors i know .
other medical professionals are afraid of this as well , but emergency care is particularly because we see the patients just so volatile .
the three words were : remember ?
&quot; remember the patient they sent home ? &quot;
the nurse , in fact , asked .
&quot; so she &apos;s back , &quot; she said in this particular note .
so she was back .
she was back and dying .
about an hour after she got home , after i sent her home , she collapsed , and the family called 911 , and the rescue assistants brought her back to the emergency room with a blood pressure of 50 , which is a dangerous shock state .
she breathed hardly , and she walked blue .
that would roll over the country to them .
the emergency staff moved all the strands .
they gave her blood pressure elevator .
they put them on the ventilation machine .
i was shocked and shattered to the inside .
and i lived through this rollercoaster because it came to intensive care after the stabilization , and i hoped it would recover .
and after two , three days , she realized that she would never wake up again .
she had suffered a non-treatable brain damage .
her family gathered together .
and over the course of the next eight or nine days , they gave up to it .
the other day , they were going to leave -- woman printer , woman , mother and grandmother .
she felt that if it came , it would make the earth go under her feet .
they say that you never forget the names of those who die .
and that was the first time i learned this myself .
for the next few weeks , i made a preference to myself , and i first learned the unhealthy shame that exists in our medical culture -- i felt myself , isolated , not the kind of healthy shame you feel , because you can &apos;t talk to the colleagues .
you all know the healthy shame , if you give a secret to the best friend &apos;s prize , even though it &apos;s sworthy of the secretary , and then you get caught , and the best friend confronts you with it , and i have a terrible discussion , but when you end up with the bad conscience , and you swore that you never make such a mistake again .
if you do recovery and you never make the mistake again .
this is the kind of educational shame .
the unhealthy way i &apos;m talking about it is the one that makes you sick in the very first place .
it &apos;s the one who tells you that not what you &apos;ve done is bad , but that you &apos;re bad at yourself .
and that &apos;s what i felt .
and it wasn &apos;t based on my chief doctor , he was very dear .
she knew that she could only do one in such a moment . and that was -- in her words -- running like the devil .
he was talking to the family , and i &apos;m sure he was smoking the woods and making sure that i was not sued .
but i kept asking myself these questions .
why didn &apos;t i ask the chief doctor ? why did i send them home ?
and then in my worst moments , how could i make such a stupid mistake ?
why did i go to medicine ?
slowly but surely , it turned out .
i started to feel better .
and then on a weekly day , there was a hole in the clouds , and the sun broke out , and maybe i can feel better again .
and i negotiated with myself that if i doubled my efforts to perfection and never made a mistake again that the voice could be stumbled .
and she did .
she ran like the devil to the house while she was pursued by this poem , and it was only about the fact that she had to quickly get to a piece of paper and a pencil , so that she could catch it by the time it went through her , and hold it on the sheet .
and i kept working .
and then it happened again .
two years later , i had service in the emergency hospital in a local hospital north of toronto , and i looked at a 25-year-old man with a mature rage .
it was a lot going on , and i was in hurry .
he always showed up here .
i looked in the rachen , and it was a little pink .
and i gave him a prescription for penicillin and sent him on .
and yet , when he went out the door , he pointed at his rage .
two days later , i came to my next emergency service , and my chief asked me for a conversation in her office .
and she said the three words : do you remember ?
in other paintings , she wasn &apos;t fast enough . she ran and ran and ran , but she didn &apos;t reach the house , and the poem rolled through her , and she missed it . she said it would move on over land and -- as she said , look for another poet .
&quot; do you remember the patient with the rich rage ? &quot;
it turns out he &apos;s infected a streptococcccca .
he had a potentially life-threatening disease called epiglottitis .
you can google that , but it &apos;s not an infection of the rachens , but the upper respiratory path , and it causes the conclusion of the breathing path .
and fortunately , he didn &apos;t die .
he got intravenious antibotica and recovered a few days later .
and i went back through the same torture of shame and self-doubt , feeling relieved , and i went breeding to work until it happened again and again .
in an emergency class , i &apos;ve missed twice a blinddaring .
there &apos;s a lot of this , especially when you think that you &apos;re working in a hospital that had only 14 patients per night .
in both cases , i didn &apos;t send them home , and there was no shortage in their treatment .
and then there were these moments -- i &apos;ll never forget that part -- she said that there were moments when she nearly missed it .
one i thought he had kidney stones .
i set up the x-ray of the kidneys , and when that wasn &apos;t a finance , my colleague decided to reconcile the patient &apos;s reference in the lower right sector and called the operators .
the other one had a strong diarrhea .
i set up fluide to rehydrate it and also asked my colleagues to look at it .
and he did , and when he discovered a hardening in the lower right sector , he called the operators .
in both cases , they got surgery , and they were fine .
both cases naked to me , asked me .
and i would be happy to tell you that my worst mistakes only happened in the first five years , which many of my colleagues say is total nonsense .
some of my blocks have happened in the last five years .
alone , damaged and without support .
so she runs to the house , and she looks for the paper , and the poem goes through her , and she grabs a pen just as it goes through her and then she said -- she said -- it was like taking her other hand and grabbing it .
here &apos;s the problem : if i can &apos;t close with my mistakes and talk about them , if i can voice the quiet voice that tells me what really can &apos;t happen , then how can i share it with my colleagues ?
how can i teach them my mistakes so they don &apos;t do the same ?
if i went into a room -- like right now , i have no idea what you &apos;re thinking about me .
when was the last time you heard about somebody who was talking about failure about failure about failure ?
oh yeah , you go to a cocktail party , and you might hear about some other doctor , but you &apos;re not going to hear somebody talk about your own mistakes .
if i were to go into a room full of colleagues and ask their immediate support and start telling them what i was telling you about , i would probably not reach the end of the second story before they really would be uncomfortable , anybody would have a joke , they would change the subject and forget the rest .
and in fact , if i knew , or my colleagues , that an orthopedic in my hospital would have taken someone &apos;s wrong leg , believe me that i had trouble looking in the eyes .
this is the system that we live in .
it &apos;s a completely denial of errors .
it &apos;s a system where there are two basic positions -- the ones that make mistakes and the ones that don &apos;t make them , the ones that constrain sleeping deprivation and the ones that have no constraints , the ones that have bad results and the ones that have good results .
she caught the poem on his tail , and she pulled it back into her body , and she took it over to the sheet of paper .
it &apos;s almost an ideological reaction like antibodies that attack a human being .
and there &apos;s the idea that if we banned those who make mistakes out of medicine , that we have a safe system .
but there are two problems with this .
in my 20-year medical sense and journalism , i did a personal medical study on medical errors and false treatments to learn everything i could for a first article i wrote for the toronto star show , &quot; white coat , black art . &quot;
and what i learned is that mistakes are absolutely inconvenient .
we work in a system where every day there are errors in which one out of 10 medications is either a false or wrong dozen , where hospital infections become more and more and more devastating and causing devastation or dead .
in this state , about 24,000 canadians die of common errors .
in the united states , the institute for medicine is deciding the number of 100,000 .
both of these are strong understatements , because we don &apos;t look at the problem in the same way that we should .
and it &apos;s the crux .
and all the time , they &apos;re culturally introduced to the values of their society , values that sustain the claim that their prayers and only their prayers , the cosmic -- or we might say the ecological -- maintain balance .
in these opportunities , the poem came in and intact on paper -- but backwards -- from the last word to the first .
in a hospital system where the medical knowledge doubles every two or three years , we can &apos;t keep up .
sleep deprivation is ubiquitous .
we can &apos;t get rid of it .
we have a cognitive error so that we can take a perfect pathology course for a breast pain patient .
then i take the same patient with chest pain , i sweat it and i irrigate it , and i add a little bit of alcoholized breath , and all of a sudden the story is deployed with contempt .
i don &apos;t take the same process .
i &apos;m not a robot ; i don &apos;t always do things the same way .
and my patients are not cars ; they &apos;re not always telling me their symptoms in the same way .
all of this is inevitable .
so if you take the system the way i &apos;ve been taught , and you error all the miserable health professionals , then at the end there &apos;s no one left .
when i heard that , i thought that was scary -- that &apos;s exactly how my creative process is going on .
and do you know the people who don &apos;t want to talk about their worst cases ?
in my show , &quot; white coat , black artwork , &quot; i have the habit of saying , &quot; this is my worst mistake , &quot; i would say to every rescue assistant to the cardiologist &apos;s boss , &quot; this is my worst mistake , &quot; blah , blah , blah , blah , blah , blah , &quot; what about yours ? &quot; and then i &apos;ll show with the microphone to him .
and then their pupils are expanding , they &apos;ve been bumping in front of their head , and then they look down and they &apos;re hard to swallow , and they start to tell their stories .
they want to tell their stories . they want to share their stories .
they want to be able to say , &quot; look , don &apos;t make the same mistakes that i made . &quot;
what you need is an environment that enables you to do that .
what you need is a new medical culture .
and it starts with a doctor .
the new defined doctor is a human being , white for his humanity , accepted her , is not proud of making mistakes , but it &apos;s all about learning something out of them so that it can be passed on .
she shares her experiences with others .
it &apos;s not like my creative process at all -- i &apos;m not the channel !
it supports other people to talk about their mistakes .
and it shows others their mistakes , not to mess , but in a loving , supportive way , so that they all benefit .
and she works in a medical culture that recognizes that people fill the system with life , and if that &apos;s true , then people make mistakes from time to time .
so the system develops to make backups , which make it easier to make mistakes , make people inevitable , and it also enables them to create loving , supportive spaces where anyone who &apos;s watching health can actually address things , which are the potential errors that are actually rewarded for them , and that , in particular , for people like me , who make mistakes and should be rewarded for gratification of them .
my name is brian goldman .
i &apos;m the redefined doctor .
i &apos;m a human . i make mistakes .
i &apos;m sorry , but i &apos;m trying to learn best from it to pass it on to others .
i don &apos;t know what they &apos;re holding from me , but i can live with that .
let me close with three of my own words : i remember .
i &apos;m a mouthful . in order to work , i have to stand up every day at the same time and sweat , struggle and really uncomfortable .
i &apos;m going to talk about a tiny , little idea .
it &apos;s about changing standards .
and because you can explain this idea in a minute , i &apos;m going to tell you three stories earlier to use the time .
the first story is about charles darwin , one of my heroes .
you know , he was here in 1835 .
you might think he was chasing , but that &apos;s not true .
in fact , he gathered fish .
he described one of them as very common .
it was a grouper .
until the &apos; 80s , it was fished in a big way .
but even me in my masonry species , sometimes this thing would rip .
now it &apos;s on the red list of endangered species .
this is a story that we &apos;ve heard many times about the galapagos or other places , and it &apos;s not very special .
yet , we &apos;re still in the galapagos .
we still think they &apos;re originally .
the brochures still describe them as untouched .
what happened here ?
the second story is to illustrate a different concept , the variable range of pills .
because i experienced it when i studied a lagoon in west africa in 1971 .
i went there because i grew up in europe , and i later wanted to work in africa .
i thought i could integrate .
and i guess many of you have done that too .
and i got a bad sunburn , and i was convinced that i really didn &apos;t come from there .
it was my first sunburn .
as you can see , the lagoon of palms and a few mangroves were surrounded .
there was a bunk of about 20 inches , schwarzschild brothers , a subspecies of the bunk .
the fisheries of this bunk were very productive , and the fishermen lived well on it and deserved in ghana , on average .
when i went back to that 27 years later , the fish was shrunk to half its size .
they grew up to five centimeters .
they had been genetically expressed .
they were still fish .
people were still happy .
even i had work or ideas that came from a source through me that i really can &apos;t identify .
and the fish were also lucky enough to be there .
so it hasn &apos;t changed anything , and yet everything has changed .
my third little story tells me about my participation in the introduction of the trawling net fishery in southeast asia .
in the &apos; 70s -- rather at the beginning of the &apos; 60s -- europe promoted a lot of development projects .
fish promotion meant countries that were already starting 100,000 fish , the industrial fishing catch of this pretty ugly ship is called mutiara 4 .
i went to mit , and we made revelations throughout the southern south chinese sea , and especially in the javasee .
we didn &apos;t have words for what we started there .
i know now that it was the bottom of the sea .
90 percent of our beginnings were sponges , other animals that are connected to the bottom .
most of the fish , the little dots there on the debris , the rubber pile , were coral reefs .
what is this thing ?
basically , the bottom of the sea came to deck , and then it was thrown back .
these images are extraordinary because the transition is going very fast .
within a year , you take a survey and then you start with the commercial fishing .
the reason is changed . for -- in this case , a hard reason , or a soft coral , it becomes a grueling crap .
this is a dead turtle .
they were not eaten , they were thrown away because they were dead .
one time we started a living thing .
she wasn &apos;t drowned yet .
then they wanted to kill them , because they were good at eating them .
in fact , this mountain of debris is accumulated by fishermen every time they drive into areas that have never been fished .
and how do we relate to it without losing our minds , but actually keeping ourselves in mental health ?
it &apos;s not documented .
we change the world , but we don &apos;t remember it .
we adapt our standards to the new level , and we don &apos;t remind ourselves of what was there .
if you generalize it , this is what happens .
on the y-axis are some good things : biodiversity , number of orca , the green of your country , the water supply .
over time , it changes . it changes , because for people , their actions are completely natural .
every generation looks at the images that they take at the beginning of their conscious lives , as a standard , and will derive everything from it .
the difference is then perceived as a loss .
but they don &apos;t notice the previous losses .
there can be a sequence of changes .
for me , the best living example of how to do this is the musician tom waits . i was allowed to interview him for a magazine a few years ago .
and at the end , you just want to get the inheritable remains .
that &apos;s our goal , largely , now .
we want to get things that have disappeared , or things that are no longer as they have been .
now you might think that the problem was people who were certainly living in predator societies , killing animals and becoming aware of what they had done after a few generations .
because obviously , an animal that was very common is rarely before it dies out .
so you don &apos;t lose a lot of previous animals .
you lose rare animals all the time .
and that &apos;s why it &apos;s not seen as a huge loss .
over time , we focus on the big animals , and in the sea , these are the big fish .
they get rarer because we catch them .
at the end of this amazing initiation , they &apos;re suddenly taken out , and for the first time in their lives , at the age of 18 , they see a sunrise . and in this crystal moment of consciousness , when the sun begins to ray on the hangs of the astonishing landscape , all of a sudden , everything they &apos;ve learned in the abstract is being confirmed . and the priest comes back and says , &quot; you see ? it &apos;s really , as i told you .
we talked about this topic . and you know what ? most of his life , tom was the embodiment of the paused modern artist , who was trying to master this uncontrollable creative impulse that lived in him and deal with them .
over time , there &apos;s very little fish left , and we think that &apos;s the standard value .
the question is , why do people accept that ?
well , because they don &apos;t know it was different once .
of course , many people , scientists , will confirm that it was really different .
they &apos;re going to confirm it , because the evidence of how they &apos;re in an earlier form is not the way they would like to present the evidence .
there is , for example , the anecdote that the report of a capita , the soundso that observed great fish incidents in this area , can &apos;t be used , or fisheries scientists don &apos;t normally be valued because it &apos;s not &quot; scientific . &quot;
so we have a situation where people don &apos;t know the past , even though we live in educated societies , because they don &apos;t trust the sources of the past .
this shows the enormous role a marine protected area can play .
because through marine protected areas , we &apos;re basically restoring the past .
we &apos;re restoring the past that people can &apos;t understand , because the standard values have changed and are very low .
but then he got older and quieter , and he told me that one day he was driving on a highway in los angeles , and it all changed for him .
so the people who see a marine protected area can benefit from the insight that it &apos;s possible to restore their normal values .
what about the people who are not able to do that , because they don &apos;t have access -- the people in the midwest , for example ?
here , i think , the art and the film may fill the gap , and simulations .
this is the simulation of chesapeake bay .
a long time ago , there were gray whales -- 500 years ago .
and the colors and the shadows , you may remember &quot; avatar . &quot;
when you think about &quot; avatar , &quot; when you think about why people were so touched by it -- except for the pocahoney story , why were you so touched by the imagery world ?
because it calls something wax that &apos;s been lost in a way .
so my recommendation , the only one i &apos;m going to give , is to cameron so that he turns &quot; avatar ii &quot; underwater .
thank you .
he was driving at a high speed when he suddenly hears a little fragment of a melody , which , as is often inspiring , is very , very difficult for him to have . and he wants to have it . it &apos;s gorgeous . he leans after that , but he can &apos;t touch it .
in the &apos; 80s , in the communist east germany , you had to , if you had a typewriter , you had to register it in the government .
they also had to register a sheet of sample text from this typewriter .
the reason for this : the government could track where a text came from .
they found an article with false thought , and they could detect the creator of that thought .
and we in the west couldn &apos;t understand how anyone could do that , and how much that would restrict freedom of speech .
in our own countries , we would never do that .
but if you buy a new color laser printer today in 2011 from the leading laser printing factories and print a page , this page has printed bright yellow blobs on every page , in a pattern that clearly lets the page go back to you and your printer .
this is what happens to us today .
and nobody seems to get upset about that .
and this was an example of how our own governments are using the technology against us , the citizens .
he doesn &apos;t have a piece of paper ; he doesn &apos;t have a pen ; he doesn &apos;t have a tape recorder .
and this is one of the three main sources of the online problems that we have today .
let &apos;s see what really happens in the world : we can split the attacks into categories .
we have three main groups .
there are online criminals .
for example , here , this is mr. dimitry golubow from kiev in ukraine .
and the motives of online criminals are very easy to understand .
these people make money .
they use online attacks to make a lot of money , a huge amount of money .
there are several known cases of online millionaires , multimillionaires that have made their money from attacking .
this is wladimir tsastsin from tartu in estonia .
so he starts to climb this old climb in him , like i &apos;m going to lose this thing , and he &apos;s going to be tracked from this song to eternal .
this is alfred gonzalez .
stephen watts .
bjurn sundin .
this is matthew anderson , tariq al-daour and so on and so forth .
these people have come online to wealth , but they &apos;ve done it illegal by using trojans , for example , to make money out of our bank accounts , while we &apos;re doing our online banking , or keyloggers , who have collected our credit card information on the keyboard while we &apos;re buying over an infected computer online .
the american intelligence agency fror , two months ago , was the swiss account of mr. sam jain here , and on this account , 14.9 million dollars was frozen when it was frozen .
mr. jain himself is on a free foot , the location is unknown .
and i &apos;m saying today that it &apos;s more likely that we will become victims of an online crime than a crime in the real world .
and it &apos;s very obvious that this is just going to get worse .
in the future , most crimes will play online .
i &apos;m not good enough , i can &apos;t do it .
the second largest group of attacks that we see today are not motivated by money .
they &apos;re motivated by something else -- protests , for example , an opinion , or through their audience .
groups like anonymous have gone up over the last 12 months and become one of the main players in the field of online attacks .
so these are the three main flu groups : criminals who are doing it for money , hackactivists like anonymous , who are resistant to it , but the last group are nations , governments who are running the attacks .
we have cases like diginotar .
it shows an example of what happens when governments attack their own citizens .
diginotar is a complete certificate from the netherlands -- or was it .
last fall , it had to sign insolvenz , because diginotar had been hacked .
somebody had broken in and hacked the system thoroughly .
and last week in a meeting with dutch government officials , i asked one of the leaders of this group to ask if he could make it possible that because of the diginotar hack people had died .
but instead of getting into panic , he just stopped .
and his answer was &quot; yes . &quot;
now , how do people die in the wake of a hack like this ?
diginotar is a certification site .
they sell certificates .
what do you do with certificates ?
now , a certificate is required if you have a website with https , with ssl encrypted services , for example , gmail .
now we all use , or many of us , gmail or one of our competitors , but these services are particularly common in totalitarian states like iran , where dissidents use foreign providers like gmail , because they know that they can trust them more than local providers , and they &apos;re encrypted by ssl connections , so that the local government can &apos;t sniff around in their conversations .
but if you &apos;re in a foreign , you can do it .
certification agency hacking and making fake certificates .
and that &apos;s what happened in the case of diginotar .
he ended the whole thought process and did something completely new .
how about the arab spring and the things that happened in egypt , for example ?
now , in egypt , the insurgency in april , 2011 , the headquarters of the egyptian intelligence police , and they found a lot of acts .
there was a folder in these records called finfisher .
and in this folder , notes were a local company in germany that the egyptian government had sold a few programs that they had -- in very large framework -- could capture any communication of egyptian citizens .
they had sold this program for 280,000 euros to the egyptian government .
the company headquarters is right here .
so western governments provide totalitarian governments with tools so that they can go against their own citizens .
but western governments are also helping themselves .
for example , in germany , just a few weeks ago , the so-called state strojans found , which was a trojan who was used by german government officials to occupy their own citizens .
if you &apos;re suspected in a criminal case , it &apos;s pretty safe to tap into your phone .
he just looked in the sky and said , sorry , can &apos;t you see that i &apos;m driving ?
but today we are far beyond that .
they tap into their internet connection .
they use tools like the statstrojans to play their computer with a trojan who allows them to monitor their entire communication , to listen to their online discussions , to collect their passwords .
so if we keep thinking about things like this , people &apos;s obvious answer is , &quot; ok , that sounds bad , but i don &apos;t care about it because i &apos;m a braver citizen .
i don &apos;t have to worry .
i have nothing to hide . &quot;
and this argument doesn &apos;t make sense .
privacy must be given .
privacy is not the debate .
it &apos;s not a decision between privacy and security .
i look like i could just write up a song ?
it &apos;s a decision between freedom and control .
and while today , in 2011 , we may trust our governments , every right that we give away is forever abandoned .
and do we trust , do we trust any future government blind , a government that we might have in 50 years ?
these are the questions that we have to deal with for the next 50 years .
it may seem strange to you , but i &apos;m a big fan of concrete blocks .
the first concrete blocks were made in 1868 , and they came up with a simple idea : module from cement with fixed measures that fit together .
concrete building blocks became the largest building unit in the world very quickly .
they gave us the ability to build things that were bigger than us , buildings , bridges , one stone at a time .
basically , the concrete building block had become the building block of our time .
almost a hundred years later , in 1947 , lego came out of this .
it &apos;s so wonderful . you have to protect it . &quot;
if you really want to exist , come back to a cheaper moment , if i can take care of you .
it was called the automatically connected stone .
and within a few years , lego moved into every household .
it &apos;s estimated that over 400 billion stones have been produced -- or 75 stones for every person on the planet .
they don &apos;t have to be an engineer to create beautiful houses , beautiful bridges , beautiful buildings .
lego made it possible for everyone .
lego basically took the concrete building block , the building block of the world , and made it a building block for our imagination .
in the meantime , the bell labs announced the next revolution in the same year , the next building block .
the transistor was a small plastic unit that would take us from a static , static , static building block to a world where everything was interactive .
like the concrete block , the transistor allows us to build much larger , more complex cycles , one stone at a time .
but there &apos;s a big difference : the transistor was just for experts .
if not , somebody else is squawking today .
i personally don &apos;t accept that the building block of our time is reserved for experts , and so i decided to change that .
eight years ago , i was at the media lab , and i started exploring this idea of how to put the power of engineers into the hands of artists and designers .
a few years ago , i started to develop littlebits .
let me show you how they work .
littlebits are electronic modules that have a specific function .
they &apos;re preferred to be light , tone , engine and sensor .
and the best thing is that they connect with magnets .
so you can &apos;t put them around the wrong way .
the rocks are colored .
green is copy , blue is electricity , pink is input , and orange is cable .
go and squawk leonard cohen .
so all you have to do is connect a blue and a green one , and you can build very quickly larger circles .
they add a blue to a green one , and they can make light .
you can put a switch in between , and so you made a little dimmer .
take the switch out to put in a pulsmodule , which is here , and they made a little blinker .
add this buzzer for an extra effect , and they made a noise machine .
i &apos;m going to stop that .
beyond the simple game , littlebits is actually quite powerful .
instead of having to code , wiring or solving , littlebits allows them to code with simple , intuitive gestures .
so to slow the blink down or slow down , you just turn on this button , and it makes the impulse faster or slower .
the idea behind littlebits is that it &apos;s a growing library .
his whole process of work has changed afterwards .
we want to bring every single interaction in the world into a second-hand stone .
lights , sounds , solar elements , motors -- everything should be available .
we &apos;ve distributed littlebits to children , and you can see playing with them .
and it was an incredible experience .
the most beautiful thing is how they start to understand the electronics that they surround in the everyday world , and they don &apos;t learn in school .
for example , how a night light works , or why the doors of the elevator remain open , or how an ipod responds to touch .
we also brought littlebits to design schools .
so for example , we had designers with no experience in electronic things that started playing with littlebits as a material .
here we see , with filz , paper and water bottles , like geordie ...
a few weeks ago , we took littlebits to risd , and we gave them to some designers who didn &apos;t have any technical experience -- just karton , wood and paper -- and we told them , &quot; do something . &quot;
not the work itself . it was still as dark as ever .
here &apos;s an example of a project that they did , a motion-controlled confettia cannon .
but wait , this is really my favorite project .
it &apos;s a hummer of play-doh who &apos;s afraid of the darkness .
for these non-engineers , littlebits became another material , electronics just became another material .
and we want to make this material available for everyone .
so littlebits is open source .
you can go to the website , download all the design benefits and make them yourself .
we want to encourage the world of creators , the inventors , the contributors , because this world that we live in , this interactive world , belongs to us .
so , go ahead and start to invent it .
thank you .
but the process and the heavy climbing that surrounds him was lifted up when he took the genius out , where he didn &apos;t cause anything but anger and left him where he came from . he realized that it didn &apos;t have to be an internal , agonizing thing .
there could be a strange , wonderful , bizarre collaboration , a kind of conversation between tom and the strange , outrageous thing that wasn &apos;t quite tom .
when i heard this story , it also changed the way i worked , and it saved me a little bit .
this idea saved me when i was in the middle of the writing process of the eat , pray , love , and i fell into one of these graves of the doubt that we all fall into when we work on something and it doesn &apos;t work . you start to think it &apos;s going to be a disaster . this is the worst book ever written .
not just bad , but the worst of all time .
they call themselves the older brothers and say that we are the younger brothers who are responsible for the destruction of the world .
i started to think i should just come up with the project .
but then i remembered how tom had spoken in the sky , and i tried .
so i took my view of the manuscript and i spoke my commentary towards an empty corner of the room .
i said , listen , you know , you &apos;re listening , you and i both know , if this book isn &apos;t brilliant , it &apos;s not completely my fault , right ?
because you see that i &apos;m investing everything i have . i don &apos;t have any more than that .
so if you want to have it better , you have to check up here and hold your percentage of the deal .
okay . but if you don &apos;t do that , you know what , then to the devil .
i &apos;m going to keep writing , because that &apos;s my job .
and i would like to give you a protocol that i was here today for my part of the job .
because , at the end of it , it &apos;s followed . centuries ago , in the deserts of north africa , people gathered into monthly fests with sacred dances and music that were lasted for hours -- to the dawn .
now this level of intuition becomes very important .
these fests were always great , because the dancers were professional , and they were fantastic .
but every once in a while , very rarely , something special happened , and one of the performers actually became overseas .
and i know you know what i mean , because i know you &apos;ve all seen a performance like this in your life .
it was as if the time was standing still and the dancer was going through a form . he didn &apos;t do anything but he had ever done before -- 1,000 nights before . but everything was going on together .
and all of a sudden , he no longer seemed fully human .
it was illuminated by the inside and illuminated by the bottom , and it all illuminated through a divine fire .
when something like that happened , people knew what that was . they called it at his name .
they put their hands together , and they started singing , like allah , allah , allah , god , god , god .
that &apos;s god , you know ?
interesting historical footnote : when the mosquitos conquered south spain , they brought this practice , and the language changed over the centuries from the allah , allah , allah , allah , to the olé , olé , olé , that you still hear in the pen fight and flamenco dances .
every time we think about innate and landscape , we either complain about rousseau and the old scaffolding of the noble wild , which is a racial thought in its simplification , or , on the other hand , thoreau , and say , these people are more connected to nature than we are .
if a performer in spain did something impossible , something magical : allah , olé , olé , olé , allah , great , bravo , there &apos;s it : a glimpse of god .
and that &apos;s great , because we need that .
but , the tricky part follows the next morning , when the dancer wakes up himself and realizes that it &apos;s 11 o &apos;clock on a tuesday -- and he &apos;s no longer wearing a five-pound of god .
he &apos;s just an aging mortality with painful knees , and maybe he &apos;ll never get up to those heights again .
and maybe nobody will ever call god &apos;s name again if they turn , but what is he going to do with the rest of his life ?
that &apos;s hard .
this is one of the most painful corrections of a creative life .
but maybe it doesn &apos;t have to be so full of embarrassment if you didn &apos;t believe in the beginning that the most extraordinary aspects of your existence came from you .
if you may just believe that you &apos;re a loan -- from an unbelievable source for a readable time of your life that &apos;s passed on to someone else when you &apos;re done with it .
when we start thinking about it that way , it changes everything .
so , indigenous people are not sentimental , nor are they chosen by the nostalgia .
so i started thinking , and so i think with certainty in the last few months , while i was working on the book that &apos;s going to appear soon -- as the dangerous , scary , strongly expected successor of my deceased success .
what i have to say to myself all the time when i get crazy about it is , don &apos;t be afraid .
don &apos;t be discouraged .
just do your job .
continue to be there for your contribution , whatever he wants to be .
if your job is dancing , dance .
if the dumb divine genius that you &apos;re put aside decides , for a moment , to show a smoke of miracles through your effort , then olé !
and if not , still dance your dance .
and it &apos;s olé ! it &apos;s all for you .
i believe in that , and i feel like we should teach that .
it remains not a lot of space in the malaria swells of asmat or the cold winds of tibet , but they still , through time and ritual , have shaped a mysterious nimbus of the earth , which is not based on the idea of being consciously close , but on a far more subtle intuition , the idea that the earth can only exist itself because it &apos;s breathed into human consciousness .
you know , olé ! despite all this , just for having the mere human love and the sense of being there .
thank you .
thank you .
olé !
last year , i showed these two slides to illustrate that the arctic ice caps , which for nearly three million years , had the size of the lower 48 states , has shrunk 40 percent .
but that doesn &apos;t express the seriousness of this particular problem , because it doesn &apos;t show the thickness of the ice .
in a sense , the arctic ice caps is the beating heart of our global climate system .
it grows in the winter and shrinks in the summer .
the next slide i &apos;m going to show you is a time-lapse of what &apos;s happened in the last 25 years .
the permanent ice is marked with red .
now , what does that mean ?
as you can see , it grows on the dark blue . this is the annual ice in winter , and it shrinks in summer .
the so-called permanent ice , five years old or older , is almost like blood flowing out of the body here .
in 25 years , it will be gone from here to here .
this is a problem because global warming is looking at the frozen reason around the arctic ocean , where there are huge amounts of frozen carbon , which , when it &apos;s looking up , is transformed from microbes to methane .
compared to the entire amount of climate change materials in the atmosphere , this amount could double if we cross this critical point .
already today , in some flat lakes in alaska methane from the water itself .
professor katey walter at the university in alaska has traveled to a different flat lake last winter with another group of work .
wow !
you &apos;re fine . the question is , how will we get there ?
and one reason is that this enormous heat rush heats greenland from the north .
it means that a small child from the andean who grows up in the belief that the mountain is an apu-spirit that will determine his or her destiny , will become a very different human being , and have a different relationship with this resource or this place , as a little child from montana , who grows up in the belief that a mountain is a bunch of rocks that can be worn off .
this is an annual sewage river .
but the volume is much bigger than ever before .
this is kangerlussuaq river in southwest greenland .
if you want to know how the sea level is going through the sea ice sheet , it &apos;s going up here .
these rivers are taking rapid .
at the other end of the planet , antarctica , the largest ice mass on the planet .
last month , researchers reported that the entire continent now has a negative ice footprint .
and the west antarctica , which has emerged over a few underwater islands , is particularly strong in the melting .
this is 20 feet of sea level , like greenland .
in the himalayas , the third largest ice mass , you see new lakes up there , which were glaciers a few years ago .
whether it &apos;s a place of a mind or a bunch of heritage , it &apos;s irrelevant .
40 percent of all the people in the world get half their drinking water from this melting water .
in the andean , this glacier is the drinking water source for this city .
water quantities have expanded .
but if you seal , most drinking water will fall away .
in california , a 40 percent reduction in the snow ceiling of the sierra .
this is the basin basin .
and the predictions of how you read them are serious .
this austroation all over the world leads to a dramatic increase in fire .
and the catastrophes around the world have gained in a really extraordinary and unprecedented extent .
four times as many in the last 30 years as in the previous 75 .
the interesting thing is the metaphor that defines the relationship between the individual and nature .
this is a completely unsustainable pattern of development .
if you look at this in the historical context , you can see what it does .
in the last five years , we &apos;ve produced 70 million tons of co2 every 24 hours -- 25 million tons per day in the oceans .
look at the area of the eastern pacific , from the american continent west and both beyond the indian subcontinent , where there is a dramatic decline of oxygen in the sea .
the biggest single factor for global warming , besides deforestation , which is 20 percent , is burning fossil fuels .
oil is a problem , and coal is the most equal problem .
the united states is one of the biggest pollution , along with china .
and the proposal was to build many more coal-fired factories .
but we start to see a change .
here are the ones that have been stripped in the last few years with some green alternatives that have been proposed .
i grew up in the forests of british colombia and believed that these forests are there to be sucked .
there is a political argument in our country .
and the coal industries and oil dustries have spent a quarter of a billion dollars last calendars to promote clean coal , which is a contradiction in itself .
this picture reminded me of something .
around christmas , at home in tennessee , a billion tons of coal lamb .
you &apos;ve seen it in the news , apparently .
this is in our entire country the second largest waste river in america .
this is what happened around christmas .
one of the commercials of the coal industry around christmas was this .
frosty the carbon man is a happy , happy guy .
it &apos;s in skin and abundance in america , and it helps our economy grow .
that made me a different person than my friends under the kwakiutl , who believe that these forests of the hukuk site and the curved celestial cord and the cannibalic spirits that live in the northd of the world , spirits that they would participate in their hamatsa initiation .
frosty , the carbon man gets cleaner every day .
he &apos;s affordable and loving , and workers stay in wage and bread .
this is the source of most coal in west virginia .
the most powerful miner is the head of massey coal .
let me say one thing very clearly : al gore , nancy pelosi , harry reid , you don &apos;t know what you &apos;re talking about .
so the alliance for climate protection has created two campaigns .
this is one , part of her .
at coalergy , we see climate change as a serious threat to our business .
so we set it up to the top line to spend a significant amount of money to get a commercial action on the way to get the truth about coal .
in fact , coal is not dirty .
now , if you start to look at the idea that these cultures can create different realities , you can understand some of their extraordinary discoveries , like this plant here .
we think it &apos;s clean -- and it smells good .
so , don &apos;t worry about climate change .
let &apos;s leave that quiet .
clean coal , you &apos;ve heard a lot about it .
so let &apos;s take a tour of this modern , clean carbon factory .
fantastic ! this machine is pretty loud .
but it &apos;s the sound of the clean coal technology .
and yet burning coal is one of the main reasons for global warming , the remarkably clean coal technology that you see here changes everything .
look at it carefully , this is today &apos;s clean , coal-fired technology .
finally , the positive alternative is mixing with our economic challenge and our challenge of national security .
all these people teach us that there are other possibilities of existence , other ways of thinking , other ways of orienting the earth .
it &apos;s a photograph i just took last april in the northwest amazon .
america is in a crisis , the economy , the national security , the climate crisis .
the red thread that connects them all is our dependence on carbon-based fuels like dirty coal and foreign oil .
but now there &apos;s a bold , new solution to get us out of this miserable situation .
take 100 percent clean electricity in america , over the next 10 years .
a plan to bring america back to work , make us safer and help us stop global warming .
finally , a solution that &apos;s big enough to solve our problems .
new america &apos;s supply . find out more .
this is the last one .
it &apos;s about a recovery of america .
one of the fastest ways of reducing our dependence on old , dirty fuels that are sticking our world .
this is ayahuasca , who many of you have heard about , the strongest psychoactive preparate from the repertoire of the shame .
the future is here . wind , sun and a new energy system .
new investments to create well-paid jobs .
new america &apos;s supply . it &apos;s time to accept reality .
there &apos;s an old african saying , &quot; if you want to be fast , go alone .
if you want to get far , go together . &quot;
we have to get far , fast .
thank you .
i want to start by asking you to think back to the time you were a kid when you were playing with building blocks .
as they realized how to reach out and grab the hands , pick up the blocks and move them , they actually learned to think about and solve problems by understanding and changing spatial coherence .
spatial thinking is tightly connected to how we understand a lot of our environment .
as a computer scientist , inspired by the way we interact with real objects -- along with my expert patti and my colleague jeevan kalanithi , i started to wonder : what if we were to use computers that , instead of a mouse pointer , that moves like a digital fingertip on a flat surface of work -- what if we could intervene with both hands and physically capture data and organize it as we want ?
this question was so profound that we decided to explore the answer and developed siftables .
in short , a siftable is an interactive computer the size of a cookie .
they can be moved by their hand , they can perceive each other , they can capture their movements , and they have a screen and a radio receiver .
more importantly , they &apos;re physical , so you can only move them like building blocks by extending hands and access .
and the siftables are an example of a new generation of tools to manipulate digital data .
and when these tools become more physical , and they develop awareness of their movements , recognize each other , and see the enemies of our relationship with them , then we can start to explore new and entertaining interactions .
i &apos;m going to start with some simple examples .
this seed is configured for the video reference , and when i tip it in one direction , the video is played forward ; when i tip it in the other direction , it &apos;s going backwards .
and these interactive portraits are perceiving each other .
this plant contains some very strong tryptamins that are very similar to the serotonin , dimethyltryptamin 5 and methoxydimethyltryptamin .
so when i put them next to each other , that &apos;s what makes them interested .
if you &apos;re surrounded by one , you &apos;ll notice that , and you can get a little nervous .
and they also feel their movement and their tendency .
one interesting consequence of the interactions that we started to see was that we could apply everyday gestures to data , like shaking colors in the way that you do it with fluids .
in this case , we configure three siftables as a color pot , and i can use them to pour paint in the middle , where they &apos;re mixed .
if we exaggerate it , we can put back a little bit .
there are also some nice ways in education , like languages , or math , or logic games , where we want to give people the possibility of fast trial and see the results immediately .
here i am -- this is a fibonacci series , which i do with a simple equation program .
this is a game with words , which is a kind of mixture of scrabble and boggle .
basically , you get every round on every siftable random letter , and as you try to form words , they &apos;re tested on a dictionary .
if you &apos;ve seen the yanoma , how you snuck this stuff , this substance that you make from different species also contains methoxydimethyltryptamin .
then , after about 30 seconds , you get remixed and you have a new combination of letters and new possibilities .
thank you .
these are some kids who came to the media lab on a trip , and i could get them to try it out and take a video of it .
they really loved it .
one interesting thing about this kind of application is that you don &apos;t have to give people a lot of instructions .
all you have to say is &quot; educate words , &quot; and you know exactly what to do .
here are some people who are testing it .
this is our youngest beta-tester down there on the lower right .
it turns out he just wanted to stack the siftables .
so for him , they were just building blocks .
this powder is kind of like being snuck out of a rifle run , saturated by baroque paintings and the landing on a sea of electricity .
this is an interactive trickster manual .
we wanted to develop a tool for language learners .
this is felix .
he can bring new characters into the scene by lifting up the siftable from the table , showing this character .
here he &apos;s letting the sun go .
the sun goes up .
now he &apos;s bringing a tractor into the scene .
the orange tractor .
good work ! yes !
by shaking the siftables and putting them side-by-side , he can let the characters interact ...
it &apos;s not a distortion of reality , but the resolution of reality .
... invent his own story .
hello !
it &apos;s a story with an open end , and it can decide how it evolves .
flying cat .
the last example that i have today to show is a music sequencer for live performances that we &apos;ve recently developed , and in the siftables as sound , like leadership , bass and drums .
each has four different variations ; you can choose which one you want to use .
and you can put these sounds into the sequence that you can then put in any pattern .
and you feed them by just holding a ton siftable to a sequencing sift .
there are effects that you can change live , like reverberation and filter .
you put it together with a particular tone , and then you tend to hire it .
i even discussed this with my professor , richard evan shultes , the man who introduced the psychedelic branch with the discovery of the magical mushrooms in mexico in the 30s , and i said that you couldn &apos;t put these tryptamins as hallucinators , because the moment you feel the impact , you &apos;re not there to experience a hallucination .
and then super-ordered effects like speed and volume that you apply to the entire sequence .
so let &apos;s see .
we start by eating the leadership voice into two sequencing siftable , and putting it in a series , expanding it and adding a little bit more of the voice .
now i &apos;m adding a bass .
now i &apos;m going to do some more drums about this .
and now i connect the filter with the drums so i can control the effect live .
i can accelerate the whole sequence by tipping the tempo in one direction or another .
and now i connect the filter with the bass , for a little bit more expression .
i can reorder the sequence while it &apos;s going on .
so i don &apos;t have to plan them in advance , but i can improvise them ; i can expand them or shorter them in the process .
but the thing about tryptamins is that they can &apos;t be picked up properly , because , of course , through a human gut , they &apos;re called monoamin oxidase , they &apos;re denatured .
and finally , i can shut out the whole sequence by making the loudstrong siftable to the left .
thank you .
so as you can see , my enthusiasm is to develop new human computer interfaces that fit better to how our brains and bodies work .
and today , i had time to show you a part of this new design world and some of the ways that we work on in our lab .
the idea that i want to leave you with is that we are at the verge of this new generation of ads to interact with digital media that bring information into our world that corresponds to our demands .
thank you .
i &apos;m looking forward to all of you .
yes , good afternoon .
i &apos;m glad i &apos;m there .
yeah , so what would biohacking be ?
they can only be connected to a couple of other chemicals that are ordered by mao denaturizing .
i have to get a little bit out of it , and that is biohacking is looking at modern molecular biology .
i &apos;ve been studying molecular biology , and i &apos;ve been studying biohacking for a few years now , and i &apos;ve started that , because i just wanted to know more about it , and i wanted to do it myself , which i &apos;ve learned in the study , theoretically .
so , that was my primary motivation .
so it was a curiosity , and i kind of wanted to get closer to the matter , like that .
i think molecular biology in general is generally speaking , so biotechnology , everything you count , synthetic biology and so on .
it &apos;s extremely important , now it &apos;s extremely important and much more important , much more important , in the future .
there are sort of controversial things like all these genetically engineered plants on the corners .
there &apos;s craig venter now in the united states , who &apos;s trying to make biofuel , so gasoline from algae .
there are also things that have come to life , but what most people don &apos;t even know , for example , washing enzymes that allow us to wash at 40 degrees of laundry , are also genetically engineered enzymes .
and the list can be continued endlessly .
and this is an idea that , if you think about it , can only be filled with hope .
now the fascinating thing is that the betakarboline , which is in the liane , are mao-inhibitors of exactly the way that it &apos;s necessary to potentially potential the tryptamins , so ask yourself .
and so from the interest of this , this technology , i just went on and on .
so why hack ?
most people know this from the software sector .
computers hack , and then it will always be like this , yes , the hackers break in somewhere and claw data and so on .
it &apos;s kind of very sad for the hacking scene , because that &apos;s not what it actually started like , and what &apos;s really behind it .
and in fact , the software hackers , in the &apos; 70s , started with computer bastles , and that &apos;s what the internet came out of .
and it &apos;s about solving a problem in a playful , creative , original way .
and the problem , it &apos;s not just a technical problem , it can also be a social problem , it can be just a starting problem , which is , you know , how things simplify , you know , any problem , you can throw up a question , and how can you do it differently , or how can you do it better .
and it &apos;s just been raised with software , but there &apos;s also in the electronics area , there &apos;s an entire bastler scene that has electronics circuits that do all kinds of things .
and i want to take this metaphor that comes out of synthetic biology , that biology is actually an information science , because , the d.n.a code is an abstract code , which is , yes , it &apos;s not quite the same as computers , because it &apos;s more dynamic , because it &apos;s matter , so it &apos;s real matter , and it &apos;s not just cyber .
how can these people from a flora of 80,000 species of adstrinating plants find these two morphologically unrelated plants that , if combined in that way , create a kind of biochemical version , so that the whole thing is bigger than the sum of its parts ?
but it &apos;s also a code , and you can also program it , and you can also hack it , like that , and i thought that was incredibly fascinating , and i just wanted to go a lot deeper .
that actually only took two thousand eight really forms , these networks .
there &apos;s hackteria dot org , which is originally from switzerland , which is with europe and with a cooperation in india based on the network , but now there are members or active people around the world .
this has a more artistic orientation , so there are a lot of artists and philosophers and collaborators with scientists who are trying to deal with these technologies and ask questions and to process creatively , there are museum exhibitions and yes , all kinds of things .
but it &apos;s really about finding such a locker access to having such a playful endeavor .
and then there &apos;s do-it-yourself bio dot org , d.i.y.bio .
this is from the united states a network , which is actually more of a kind of forum where you &apos;re going to find yourself and discuss online .
they &apos;re a little bit more technical , and they &apos;re also going to go a little bit more businessly , and they &apos;re going to be asked , you know , there &apos;s some applied questions .
and based on these networks that have made the whole popular , it has evolved a scene that i want to take a moment to portrait .
here in the upper left image , you see biocurious , which is a hackerspace , so basically a kind of school , a private school , a nonprofit facility , where everyone can go .
we use this great euphemism , trial and error , which turns out to be meaningless .
kids , old , all sorts of people , go there and just sit down with it , they set up a lab , and they look at what you can do when these lab protocols are .
here on the bottom left is a group in indonesia , house-of-natural fiber , which is called , but they &apos;ve been around for quite a long time .
for more than these other two networks .
they &apos;re also involved in an artistic aspect of biological materials , and , yes , also electronics , and they combine it in a fairly abundant way .
a group of ankara , who i met a while ago , who have this is a group of students who wanted to give the public more of what they learned in college , and they &apos;ve been doing this on the street side , and they &apos;re trying to explain what d.n.a is .
and i have a lecture up in the other image in copenhagen at the medical museum combined with an exhibition on the subject .
and this is , yes , these are mostly quite young people , but the only thing that actually brings you all together is this fascination of technology .
and what you can do with it , and it &apos;s very specific to society , and to ask , &quot; okay , what do you know , what do you want to do with it , do you have an interest in bringing you into it ? &quot;
so , o.k , to hack biology , you need some material .
you need biological materials , of course , and you also need tools , and that &apos;s a lab .
but if you ask the indians , they say , &quot; the plant speaks to us . &quot;
or , of course , what you normally understand under a lab is , these are sort of crude machines , extremely expensive , extremely distance , just for professionals , trained academics with ph.d. and so on .
and our approach was to say , o.k , you don &apos;t actually have to do that .
it &apos;s actually not necessary because every coffee machine has actually more sophisticated technology than most laboratories , that &apos;s really the way it is .
and s o with this premise with this premise then , for example , brian degger in england tried to put together a minimum abor , then took a steam pressure cooker , a heat plate , and , yes , so soup brothers , and then grew bacteria , works .
so anyone who &apos;s been in a soup that he &apos;s made for too long , has been done .
so i tried to expand this in my lab , and then i bought a little bit of second-hand equipment on ebay , and i did a little bit of d.n.a analysis , and i tried a father-in-law test , so / d.n.a fingerprinting , to do back home .
this shouldn &apos;t be a joke at all , but .
so , down here in the picture , you see the lab , you know , in leadership , so this is a garage that &apos;s been admitted with all sorts of lab scaffolding that the university has done , a group in paris that &apos;s been doing something , and it &apos;s pretty successful with it , and it &apos;s also pretty interesting things , and i want to cut a project for a second .
and this is biocurious , who just mentioned hackerspace , this one , this kind of folk school , basically for molecular biology .
and yeah , so , you see , it &apos;s relatively straight , so that &apos;s what &apos;s going on from people who are doing this on their own , all the way to large , larger organizations that are already doing this in institutionalized form .
so , what does that mean ?
but always the idea that it should be simple and accessible .
the first project that we &apos;ve done as an international group , as we &apos;ve sort of become aware of ourselves , o.k , we &apos;re now as a real scene , and we &apos;re online , and we know the people who are always chatting and so on .
and then from the do-it-yourself bio org website of the founders , and he said , o.k , we really have to meet now , also meet real , and then organized two events , one in london , two thousand 10 , and shortly afterwards in the united states , in san francisco .
and then , it was also about , yes , o.k , who are we , what do we want , what do we want to share ?
and what are our values and what are our targets , our basis ?
and then we worked out a code-of-conduct .
that was pretty intuitive , so everyone just expressed their wishes , their own , and what moves them , and then expressed them .
there was , i think , a very good code .
and then we didn &apos;t have that , but that &apos;s all right , i think , has been pretty well done , people are quite convinced of that .
and we even then tried to bring that back to the academic world , but somehow it didn &apos;t get there .
this tribe , the cofan , has 17 variants on ayahuasca , which you all recognize at a long distance in the forest that seems to our eyes as a species .
so i think we &apos;re from the biohacking scene , in fact , a step further than the academic world .
yes , what kind of projects are we doing now ?
one project that i did with the hackteria network in switzerland itself was that we wanted to build something called an optical trap or an optical brush .
this is , if you focus a laser beam on you in the room , you can catch little particles in the air , or in the liquid , and then move in that focus , so it &apos;s captured there , like a tractor beam , basically .
this really works , this is done in the academic setting , and then we thought , o.k , maybe we can do this , then we took a webcam that screwed up , turned the lens off , and then you &apos;ve got a microscope that &apos;s going up about four hundred times .
that &apos;s what you see down there .
and then we put together a d.v.d brenner , and we pulled the tank out , and then we tried to focus on this camera .
and that didn &apos;t work , unfortunately , but we &apos;ve learned a lot about it .
this is another project , which is from the french group in paris , which has been working , which is pretty cool .
and that is , he &apos;s got this kind of brain scanning device , like e.e.g or something , so he &apos;s been looking at neurobiology , his nickname is sam neurohack .
and then they ask them how they start their taxonomy , and they say , &quot; i thought you understand something about plants .
he then built this helmet there , and in the cooperation with the museum , that &apos;s what went on .
and then the visitors could go into the room , sit down on this chair , sit down this helmet .
then their brainwaves were measured , and depending on what they thought , or how they thought , different lights have gone on in the room .
it was a pretty fate project .
another thing from the united states , which has to do with this paternity history , is the p.c.r , which is the polymer chain response , complicated word .
so it &apos;s about copying genes , reproducing genes , d.n.a , making fragments so that you can make them visible .
so now , if i do this , the profilers at the crime site , they go , they collect some hair samples , and then they do this method , and then they can say , o.k , this hair belongs to this person , like this .
and the machines that do this kind of thing , they &apos;re pretty expensive to buy commercially , the cheapest ones to go to four thousand euros .
and that &apos;s not in the hobbyway , but it &apos;s a really cool technology that can do a lot .
so this is just an application of many that you can do with it .
i mean , you know nothing at all ? &quot; and i said , &quot; no . &quot;
and they ran two of these bastlers , and they said , o.k , we make it easier and cheaper , and then they have open source , which is free hardware , electronics , assembling this device , and are now the ones that have actually brought it to market farms , and are now the cheapest providers of these devices in the world .
i think that kind of six-dollar or something .
but anyway , it &apos;s still not cheap now , but it &apos;s definitely in a framework where it &apos;s clearly more available .
so it &apos;s a very yellow hack , i think .
one project that i started recently was to build a gene gun .
gene-gun is , yes , like a kind of air pressure gun , which shoots about this far , two centimeters or so .
you put d.n.a on gold particles and the gold particles , and then you put them in these air pistols , and then i shoot them on onions , and then i made them glow .
so the device that you see there , that didn &apos;t work .
but this is my prototype like this , which looked pretty much like a cruise , on such a branch , the thing on it , put electronics on it and pressure , and that was the pressure too high , the thing had broken .
and then i took a juggler and i put it in .
so , it turns out that you take each of the 17 variants at the full moon , and they sing to you in a different scale .
a juicer , if you make it full of water , it has enough pressure , so i think it &apos;s 40 to six hundred bar .
and then you can accelerate the particles strong enough , and then they go into the onion .
and the commercial device costs about five thousand euros to go up or something like that , juvenile penders like that about 50 .
so it doesn &apos;t have the same efficiency , but it &apos;s basically doable .
so , that &apos;s right now the core cause of the scene is to increase this availability of technology , and also to increase the information and the understanding that more people can get involved .
because , as i said at the beginning , it &apos;s an extremely important technology , and most people have relatively little idea of it , and also no chance of forming really well .
because if you just read about it , from secondary literature , that &apos;s not the same thing as once you &apos;ve done it yourself or seen it .
and i think technology is becoming more and more important in our modern societies .
and if , as an informed citizen , you want to make meaningful decisions in society and want to be able to contribute , you need access to knowledge and to technology .
and you also have to do it and understand it to do it and to understand it .
now , that doesn &apos;t get you a ph.d. at harvard , but it &apos;s much more interesting to count than tribal .
and that then firms under the headlines of open knowledge and citizen science .
so that , as citizens , you &apos;re going to be able to engage with these scientific technologies .
and this is the core cause of the biohackers .
these are the people who were at least officially on the website , d.i.bio-dot-org website .
that &apos;s a relatively remarkable number of people around the world .
and what &apos;s interesting is that they are also represented in southeast asia .
that is , i think , they &apos;re there with less people than actually exist .
so i know of some who haven &apos;t been involved .
and these are just the biohackers now , the individual people .
and partly with these hackerspaces , which is to put these places together .
